Death Crystals are crystals found on Forbodulon Prime. Someone who wields one is able foresee their death in multiple possible future scenarios. Usage: Death Crystals provide visions of possible death scenarios to anyone who possesses one. Attaining these visions can be achieved by mere touch and the vision is from a third person point of view. A lot of Crystal Poachers illegally mining the crystals to sell for big money on the market. Since your future stems from your present, the crystal will simultaneously show you all possible deaths that could happen to you in the future. However, if you are on a path of life that leads to a specific fate, if your about to get shot for example, then the crystal will only show you one form of death. It is also possible for a death to be semi-certain; for example, if someone intend to kill you, but the method has yet to be decided. In this case the visions will all share a common trait: multiple possible ways to die, but all inflicted by the same person. As demonstrated by Rick, the Crystals often act as highly effective combat aid by providing an insight on how certain a cause of death will be; to give a more specific example, while the other guy is reloading, the crystal holders death is uncertain and they will see all possible death scenarios, but when the enemy is ready and able to kill, then the crystal holder will only see one death, at the hands of said enemy. However, the drawback of the crystals is that they are only reveal the death itself and are unable to reveal the circumstances that will lead to the death. This is shown when Morty attempted to use the crystal to find the right path to die peacefully at an old age with Jessica by his side expressing her love. To this end he committed bloody massacres and largely immoral acts. It is later revealed in the end that his visions with Jessica were actually her working in hospice, comforting a random patient on his deathbed, saying "I love you" followed by whatever it says on their name tag, as Morty dies alone. 