 Evil Morty's Portal Gun is a uniquely personalized teleportation device, possibly having been constructed at The Citadel following his election to Commander-in-chief in "The Ricklantis Mixup". The device itself is first seen by the viewer at the end of "Rickmurai Jack" and appears to be an improved version of Rick's modern portal gun. Evil Morty's portal gun is very similar in appearance to a regular portal gun, with a black dial to select a destination and a red LED display. However, unlike a regular portal gun, this variant is coated with a reflective gold plating and sports a less streamlined housing. The fluid reservoir and subsequently generated portals appear to be golden as well.  After Evil Morty successfully managed to break through the Central Finite Curve's surrounding "wall" and accessed the edge of the multiverse, he used his portal gun to open a portal to an unknown location. The device has been in Evil Morty's possession for an undisclosed period, though one could assume it has been operational for some time before Rick and Morty's impromptu arrival to Re-Build-A-Morty. When Evil Morty found his refuge disturbed by Rick's fracking of the Central Finite Curve to find Rick Prime, he returned to confront Rick and Morty. When Evil Morty's advice led to the three finding a trap decoy of Prime, Evil Morty tried to portal away only for Prime's black portal fluid to collapse Evil Morty's portal. After three had survived Prime's trap, both Rick and Evil Morty found that their Portal Guns unable to function. Taking the gun, Rick combined it with his own, along with some cybernetics from Nerd Rick and Prime's Portal Fluid, to escape back to the Parmesan dimension. After Rick used Prime's portal fluid to discover his nemesis's location, Evil Morty used the same portal fluid as a means to follow. Following Prime's death and Evil Morty taking the blueprints for the Omega Device, Evil Morty portalled away, warning Rick to leave him alone. Although the full extent of capabilities have not been confirmed, given Evil Morty's genius intellect and the device's altered appearance with respect to regular portal guns, it can be assumed this version has all of the same features, with the added benefit of likely having imported coordinates for obscure and completely unexplored areas outside the influence of any dominant Rick, or the Central Finite Curve. Since Evil Morty managed to successfully punch through "The Curve Thing" which served to separate a smaller portion of reality from the whole, his unique portal gun possibly allows him to access the entirety of the rest of the "known multiverse" which was previously appeared prohibitively difficult, likely giving it an even greater theoretical range than any other teleportation device observed in the series to date. Despite wanting to get away from Rick, his portal gun is still able to travel inside of the Central Finite Curve, although it's possible he was able to do so due to Rick's fracking of it. According to Evil Morty, the gun would still function in the presence of a sub-ether barrier that would disable the functionality of a normal Portal Gun. However, unlike a regular Portal Gun, Evil Morty's was unable to replicate Rick Prime's black portal fluid, the gun needing a sample to be physically plugged into it to open a portal to Prime's location. Season 5 Rickmurai Jack Season 7 Unmortricken Episode notes: The concept of gold plated guns tends to be associated in the modern day with video game progression rewards, typically in shooters with a competitive player-base like Gears of War, Overwatch, or the Call of Duty franchise just to name a few. They are also still loosely known to possess an anachronistic association with dictatorial regimes and authoritative governments. 