The Microverse Battery is a gadget developed by Rick to supply power to his flying ship. It is featured in the episode "The Ricks Must Be Crazy." Description: The Microverse Battery contains a miniature universe with a planet inhabited by intelligent life. These lifeforms use kinetic devices, which were given to them by Rick, to produce electricity. Under the guise of "waste power", a majority of the energy produced is extracted by Rick to power his ship. The people of this world, including their president, Chris, consider Rick to be a benevolent alien, when in fact, he is using them as slaves. Trouble occurs when a scientist in this miniature world, Zeep Xanflorp, invents his own Microverse Battery (which he calls a 'Miniverse') to provide his people with energy, thus making the kinetic devices Rick installed obsolete. Microverse - made by Rick; energy extraction via goobleboxesMiniverse - made by Zeep Xanflorp; energy extraction via flooblecrankTeenyverse - made by Kyle; planned energy extraction via bloobleyank Miniverse - made by Zeep Xanflorp; energy extraction via flooblecrankTeenyverse - made by Kyle; planned energy extraction via bloobleyank Teenyverse - made by Kyle; planned energy extraction via bloobleyank Rick describes creating a "spatially tessellated void inside a modified temporal field", while Zeep Xanflorp describes his Miniverse as an "unbounded vacuum inside a temporal field". The temporal fields of the Miniverse and Teenyverse are known to speed up time inside the universes relative to the outside, but this is unclear in the case of the Microverse; hours pass for Summer in the car while Rick and Morty are inside the battery, but enough time apparently passes immediately after their escape for the Microverse to go back to goobleboxes. The speed of time is at least slow enough for President Chris to have previously met Rick personally. Zeep Xanflorp states that 80% of the energy made by the inhabitants of his Miniverse is extracted for his use, while Rick does not state precisely how much of the Microverse's energy is extracted saying only that 'some of it' powers his ship. The Television broadcast in the Microverse world suggests that he is extracting about two thirds of the energy generated. Appearances: "The Ricks Must Be Crazy" "Rest and Ricklaxation" (Cameo) Pocket Mortys Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality Pocket Mortys :  The Microverse Battery is a craftable item in the game Pocket Mortys.  Feeling Rickcharged Dude, Where's My Rick? 