Morty's is a Rick and Morty themed Wendy's restaurant in Los Angeles celebrating the beginning of Season 5 on Adult Swim.   Description: This limited time pop-up restaurant, in the Wendy’s Panorama City location, features an immersive drive-thru experience, that’ll put you front and center of the Rick and Morty-verse action. Guests enter the drive-thru via a gigantic, 42-foot replica of Rick's mouth and exit by way of a similarly-sized "Wendy Morty" (which is a modified Morty that resembles Wendy.) The drive-thru's tunnel experiences are further animated by interior LED screens which surround the customer's car with Rick and Morty-themed animations. Menu choices: Morty's launched with a modified menu which focuses on speed-of-delivery through the drive-up window. This Wubba Lubba Grub Grub menu features select breakfast and rest-of-day food items. The rest-of-day menu offers the Spicy Chicken Sandwich, Jerry's Single (Dave's Single) and 10-piece Nuggets combos. This modified menu is only available at this particular location. Wendy's simultaneously started offering Rick and Morty-themed flavors of Mello Yello via Coca Cola Freestyle Flavor machines in participating restaurants nationwide, including Morty's. The two flavors available as of 6/16/21 are "Portal Time Lemon Lime" and  "Berry Jerryboree!". Both are also offered with a zero calorie variant. Morty's is also using special bag graphics depicting "Wendy Morty" on the front and a QR code on the back. When scanned, the code opens the Wendy's app and gives the guest a free breakfast sandwich, with purchase, for later redemption. Additionally, guests are given a 4-ounce Pickle Rick Pickle Frosty while they wait on their food order. Guests not in the LA area can enjoy Wendy's faves along with one of the Rick and Morty Mello Yello flavors with free delivery via the Wendy's app. ↑ Offer valid for 30 days from claim. Registration in app required. ↑ Offer valid 6/17-7/1 on delivery orders via the Wendy’s App only.Wendy’s App download and registration required. Offer available at participating U.S. Wendy’s. Subject to cancellation at any time. Media: Day One Day Two