A Plumbus is an all-purpose home device. Everyone in the Rick and Morty universe has one, so nobody ever explains what it does or how it works. It was first shown in the episode, "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate" where it was seen twice on the Interdimensional TV. First, when Stealy stole one from a workplace and again in an episode of How They Do It that shows the viewers how plumbuses are made. It is described as a common household and office item that is also used as an accent piece to a room. According to Stealy, Plumbuses are worth six-and-a-half Brapples. Plumbuses are created in a factory on Plumbubo Prime 51b. They use Mortys for maintenance and other menial tasks. Known employees are Plumbus Slave Morty, Plumbus Worker Morty, Plumbus Master Morty, Plumbus Prawn Morty, and Plumbonia Morty. Working in a factory is very dangerous for a Morty. Repurposed Fleeb Juice, combined with tight spaces, can cause a Morty/Alien hybrid such as Plumbonia Morty. Morty/Plumbus protein strands can cause mutations to occur in Mortys such as Plumbus Prawn Morty. In Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality, Rick has a Plumbus in the garage. The Plumbus can be combined with other items to create different colors of Plumbus. One of the aliens that work at the plumbus factory are Blamphs, and another is a Schlami. Purpose: Originally plumbus was conceived by the show's creators as a device alien and ridiculous with no clue on what it actually does, apart from that every home has it. However, as the show marched on, a few clues appeared to its purpose: Plumbus can generate and store vast amounts of heat, allowing it to be used for cooking, ironing or just heating the room. Plumbus can secrete various agents from itself and has adaptive rubbing surfaces, making it useful for cleaning. Plumbus is able to receive radio waves and convert them to sound, even recording and playing them back, so it can be used as a radio and/or receiver. Plumbus has limited locomotion and can autonomously move around the house, even climbing ladders, cleaning the floor without the owner's participation. Contrary to popular belief, plumbus is not used as a personal massager/sensory stimulator, as its manual explicitly says that applying it to sensory organs can cause trauma or death. It's also noted that plumbus is not technically alive, but it's grown from organic matter, feels the emotions of its owner and senses other plumbuses within a rather large range, which can sometimes impair its performance. It's also sometimes used as a decoration. Plumbus Owner's Manual: Physical copies of Rick and Morty: The Complete Second Season on DVD and Blu-ray Collector's Edition include an actual owner's manual, one version in an unknown alien language and a second in English. The manual has eight pages including information such as parts of the Plumbus, usages, and various precautions. Together, with both languages, the packet is 16 pages long. The manual can also be found in the game Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality. Other Plumbuses: Other Plumbuses can be found in Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality. These Plumbuses differ greatly from other Plumbuses. The Grumbo is a different shape, and the Chumble is located on the bottom of the Grumbo. The Dingle-Bop has been redesigned, and is now a handle, with another one connecting the Grumbo and the Floob. The Grodus has been shortened, and there is a new part on the surface of the Grumbo. There are various lumps located all over the Grumbo.  NOTE: THIS IS NOT A COMPLETE LIST, THESE ARE JUST EXAMPLES. THE COMPLETE LIST WILL BE CREATED LATER-ON. Appearances: "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate" "Rattlestar Ricklactica" (mentionned) Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort" Rick and Morty Season 3 Title Sequence Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality Pocket Mortys Carl’s Jr and Hardee’s Commercial (Cameo) MultiVersus Supraland: Six Inches Under (On the showers) Trivia: While the net worth of a plumbus is unknown, during the episode "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate", a stolen one was worth 6 1/2 brapples, which is surprisingly cheap for a device that is hand-made by several species of workers. The silhouette of a plumbus is seen in Journal 3 from the Disney Channel original TV series, Gravity Falls. There are human forms of Plumbus called Pav. The in-series television show, "How They Do It" is a reference to the real life show, "How It's Made", or "How Do They Do It?", even using a similar musical motive. In a deleted exchange between Rick and Summer, Rick reveals that he too doesn't know what a Plumbus is for.  