 Poke ball is a gadget originating from the Pokémon series, that was used a couple of times in the show. It's used to capture creatures for battling each other. It comes in a variety of colors and sizes. History: A possible Poke ball appeared as a background object in Mr. Needful's office in "Something Ricked This Way Comes". In "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri", Rick uses a Poke ball to defend from Space Beth, who unexpectedly passed through his laser wall. Space Beth responds to this by usind her own Poke ball, which resulted in a quick battle between their creatures. Rick's creature bit its opponent before the setting changed to Rick revealing a chip in Beth's neck and shortly after they went to Shoney's. Poke ball apeared as a major object in "Mort: Ragnarick". Before the events of the episode, Rick caught Bigfoot into one, with a sole purpose of it killing him. At the time, he thought it was funny that Bigfoot was stupid, and used him for his personal gain, much to Bigfoot's hatred he developed. After Rick figured out that afterlife existed and he could die like a viking to enter Valhalla, he headed to Norway to be killed by a mighty oponent. Rick locked himself in a cage that was too durable for Bigfoot to break and used a Poke ball to summon him. Due to the developed hatred, he quickly killed him. The same (or same looking) Poke ball was used to capture the Pope after he lost his powers. Rick threw the ball at the defeated man, and it caught it without any problem. After doing so, he called it a "Popey-ball", stating that was an obvious joke that someone would point out to him if he didn't make it. In the post-credit scene, Rick used the Pope to battle with another trainer in an illegal arena. Both of them had their own Poke balls. The battle ended when FBI arrived to shut the place down. Users: Pokeballs were seen being used by: Rick Sanchez Space Beth Unnamed Trainer Pokeballs were seen being used on: 3 Unnamed Creatures Bigfoot The Pope Diffrent types: Pokeballs have diffrent types which all function the same. The only diffrence are the size and color. Tiny Pokeballs: Used by both Rick and Beth in the fourth season. They can atleast hold small animals. They come in red and blue. Regular-sized Pokeballs: Used by Rick and a trainer in the seventh season. They can atleast hold bigger creatures, such as a Bigfoot. They come in yellow and blue. All brown Pokeball: Held on a shelf in the office of Needful Things. Could not be a Pokeball, but rather an object refrencing a Pokeball, or being a coincidence. Never seen in action. Appearances: Something Ricked This Way Comes (possibly) Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri Mort: Ragnarick Trivia: Poké balls originaly come from the Pokémon series. A Poke ball is a parody of that. To indiffrentiate itself from the original, Poke balls don't have to hit the target to then capture them, but rather just be thrown at them. The Rick and Morty video game parodying Pokémon uses Morty Manipulator Chips instead of Poke balls. As described by the Pope, being inside of a Poke ball makes you loose track of time, as he was not sure what year it was. Enough time passed for a new pope to be elected. All of the unnamed creatures that were caught by a Poke ball, appeared as a Morty-hybrid in Pocket Mortys. The list includes: Rick's Pet Morty, Beth's Pet Morty and Pocket Morty. 