Portals allow travel between two different locations. Usually, these locations exist in the same universe. The only groups that have been known to manufacture intergalactic portal technology are versions of Rick and the Galactic Federation present in Dimension 35-C (Intergalactic Customs in "Pilot"). Prior to the start of the series, the mathematical formula for interdimensional portal travel was independently invented by two Ricks, namely Rick Prime and Rick C-137. They later shared this technology with other Ricks across the multiverse, who then utilized this ability to explore a defined portion of the multiverse colloquially referred to as the Central Finite Curve. Some organizations and people are aware the existence of interdimensional teleportation, but it is unclear whether they possess the necessary understanding to employ use of it or not (e.g. Time Court, Morty Smith (304-X), and the gaseous beings of the "Fart" dimension). Whilst there are many types of portals, as shown in the later sections, it is possible to split the observed portals by colour. This is not a fully consistent system but can allow a viewer to generally discern the portal type according to the colour of said portal.  The following list represents a simplified categorisation of portals purely based on colour. Blue or Purple - Interspatial PortalPurpose: Allows a user to move between two points within a dimension. For example, between two different planets.Notably, the purple portals seem different from the blue portals in that portal fluid is not required, instead requiring a sort of constructed frame to function.Examples (Blue):Rick's prototype portal gun "The Rickshank Rickdemption".The President's portal "The Rickchurian Mortydate".The portals used in customs by the Galactic Federation "Pilot".Examples (Purple)The military portal used by the Galactic Federation during the Battle of Blood Ridge "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort". Purpose: Allows a user to move between two points within a dimension. For example, between two different planets.Notably, the purple portals seem different from the blue portals in that portal fluid is not required, instead requiring a sort of constructed frame to function. Notably, the purple portals seem different from the blue portals in that portal fluid is not required, instead requiring a sort of constructed frame to function. Examples (Blue):Rick's prototype portal gun "The Rickshank Rickdemption".The President's portal "The Rickchurian Mortydate".The portals used in customs by the Galactic Federation "Pilot". Rick's prototype portal gun "The Rickshank Rickdemption". The President's portal "The Rickchurian Mortydate". The portals used in customs by the Galactic Federation "Pilot". Examples (Purple)The military portal used by the Galactic Federation during the Battle of Blood Ridge "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort". The military portal used by the Galactic Federation during the Battle of Blood Ridge "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort".  Green - Interdimensional PortalPurpose: Allows a user to move between two points in different dimensions (although it can also be used similarly to a blue portal).Examples: Rick's Usual Portal Gun. Purpose: Allows a user to move between two points in different dimensions (although it can also be used similarly to a blue portal).Examples: Rick's Usual Portal Gun. Examples: Rick's Usual Portal Gun. Yellow/Gold - ExtradimensionalPurpose: Allows a user to leave the central-finite curve.Examples: Evil Morty's Portal Gun used in "Rickmurai Jack". Purpose: Allows a user to leave the central-finite curve.Examples: Evil Morty's Portal Gun used in "Rickmurai Jack". Examples: Evil Morty's Portal Gun used in "Rickmurai Jack". OtherFire portal to Hell "Amortycan Grickfitti"See-Through advanced interdimensional portals "Juricksic Mort"Examples: Portal Pistol invented and showcased by The Dinosaurs in Juricksic Mort.In "Unmortrickan", various colors and designs of portals are shown in the greater multiverse being used by various dimensional travelers, including Purple, Yellow, Teal, and Orange, as well as in various shapes like Squares, Triangles, and Hexagons.This could imply there exists an infinite variety of portal travel colors and methods. Fire portal to Hell "Amortycan Grickfitti" See-Through advanced interdimensional portals "Juricksic Mort"Examples: Portal Pistol invented and showcased by The Dinosaurs in Juricksic Mort. Examples: Portal Pistol invented and showcased by The Dinosaurs in Juricksic Mort. In "Unmortrickan", various colors and designs of portals are shown in the greater multiverse being used by various dimensional travelers, including Purple, Yellow, Teal, and Orange, as well as in various shapes like Squares, Triangles, and Hexagons.This could imply there exists an infinite variety of portal travel colors and methods. This could imply there exists an infinite variety of portal travel colors and methods. The below sections will go into greater detail about specific types of portals. Interspatial Portals: which seem to appear blue ("Pilot" & "The Rickshank Rickdemption") allow teleportation between two fixed points within the origin universe. It is inferred that properly functioning blue portals have no significant time discrepancy (enabling nearly instantaneous transportation) when used. In "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort", in Birdperson's recollection of the Battle of Blood Ridge, it is shown the Galactic Federation also used diamond-shaped (technically a square rotated 45 degrees) opaque purple portals with a concentric repeating pattern of the portal's shape radiating from the center. It appears this variant is generated without the aid of portal fluid, but instead using some class of energy (likely precision focused) provided by four specialized starships holding formation. It is possible they harnessed a combination of wormholes and time crystals to accomplish this feat of relatively rapid-response deployable mobility on remote battlefields. Interdimensional Portals: appear green and have the hybridized capability to teleport non-gaseous matter between any two points within the origin universe or even interdimensionally into alternate universes. No practical time discrepancy is shown to occur for users utilizing green portals. The Dinosaurs created an advanced version of the interdimensional portals, which appear to act similarly to the portals from Rick's gun, except people were capable of seeing through the portals before entering (Juricksic Mort). They were able to function after regular green portals proved unable to function after the citadel's destruction. These portals have only been shown to be created by the Portal Pistol. Extradimensional Portals: appearing golden, this ambiguous portal is first seen by the viewer after Evil Morty activates his Dimensional Drive Protocol on The Citadel and uses the dimensional rift to punch through the Central Finite Curve's barrier in an attempt to escape it. After his success, he generates a golden portal and teleports into the unknown, possibly outside the multiverse entirely. Temporal Portals: appear as light-blue bubbles or luminous off-white portals raised off the ground and are capable of allowing matter to pass through space-time. They were utilized during the Snakenet conflict on the replacement dimension Snake Planet by both Snake Cyborgs and the Snake Resistance in the future to travel back in time to present-day Earth on separate missions to kill and protect Morty respectively. There are naturally occurring interdimensional wormholes as seen in "Mortynight Run" This variant is permeable for gaseous compounds to pass through and is coincidentally a common method of transport for the "Fart" species across dimensions. There are also large Blue unstable wormholes shown during the title sequence in "Mort Dinner Rick Andre" which led to a reality Nexus or core of some sort housing large reality crystals and a tentacled creature who seemingly devours realities to keep them in check, the portal will also cut anything that is in between during collapse. This portal variant is opened and closed by unknown means. An intergalactic wormhole is used by Rick and Jerry returning home from the Resort planet during the "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy" which likely form organically before local civilizations artificially reinforce them with safety infrastructure built around the rim edge. This practice has been shown to be common over at least the last few decades, being featured in a memory flashback of Rick C-137's origin story in "Rickmurai Jack". In "Mortynight Run" an invisible wormhole was shown which seemingly phase (as if switching channels) the user to an "unregistered cross-temporal asteroid" known as Furp Rock - a hub of universes. These invisible wormholes apparently exist in every dimension, owing to the many Ricks and Mortys on Furp Rock who left their Jerrys at Jerryboree. If you leave Furp Rock, you're automatically returned to your former universe through the use of an unknown mechanism. Time-Stabilized Gateway: appear as semi-transparent layered blue (from the perspective of the observer) and orange outlined "doorframes" with a short cosmic buffer sandwiched in between. This type of portal enables passage between two fixed points in space-time. It is unclear if the two realms exist in the same universe, or different dimensions entirely. Parallel Determination Shunt: depicted as a bright pink flash of light and static purple smoke around the "arriving" user's body when the remote device is triggered.  The mechanism appears to have two critical pieces of hardware in a Primary/Secondary configuration. The main hub acts as the local server, which is known to maintain a history of the user remote actions, store a backup of the first timestamp ever created as a permanent reset point, and finally has the capacity to collapse all of the "throwaway universes" into the user's current dimension, allegedly forcing them to merge. The second, a smaller client device, is the remote control quickly which saves and loads the intended "timestamps" on demand.  Portal Technology: In the Galactic Federation, intergalactic portal travel, like air travel on Earth, is regulated and restricted. This might be because of the oppressive nature of the Galactic Federation, however, such regulations also suggest that intergalactic travel is very costly and/or difficult to accomplish (as regulating an enterprise which can be easily reproduced is nearly impossible). The Galactic Federation only possesses the tech for intergalactic portals, that require a stationary gate at both ends, much like in "The Rickchurian Mortydate". The Galactic Federation has been hunting Rick for decades, not only for the many notable crimes against the Federation, but also so they might obtain the secrets of interdimensional travel. In "The Rickchurian Mortydate", the U.S. Government uses portal technology Rick describes as "ghetto-ass", "off-brand", and "deficit-tripling". The government teleporter is unlikely to be able to allow travel to another dimension as it requires the military to arrive at the destination for set-up before the teleporter can be used. Perhaps it is shown how the US government received portal technology in "Morty's Mind Blowers". In the erased memory, Morty, Rick and Morty were locked up by an alien collector, Morty asked to save them and Rick remotely transferred portal technology to NASA, the portal aura around the spacecraft was blue, and then Rick and Morty left the pilots, because the device was two-seater. During the events of "Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion" it appears that the government likely hasn't installed one on Mars yet, since they would've probably used it to teleport Summer to their secret base in an attempt to weaponize Naruto Smith more quickly. However, it is worth noting that the payload may be too large or delicate to practically soft-land on the surface safely.  In "Rickmurai Jack", after having broken through the Central Finite Curve, Evil Morty reveals his own golden portal gun. Unlike the standard portal guns that the Ricks use, this version generates golden portals. Given that Morty managed to break through the Central Finite Curve created by Ricks, Evil Morty's portal gun might even allow him to travel to any reality in existence, including those outside the Central Finite Curve, allowing it a far greater range than Rick's portal gun. Notably, crystals from the center of the multiverse and beings found there are used to power multiversal travel and appear to be canonically relevant to the science of the portal guns as they are constructed, as Evil Morty used one to protect his oasis home. The crystal stability is affected by multiversal technology. Other types of portals also exist canonically, although most of these omitted variants are atypical or paranormal in origin, such as the portal to Hell in "Amortycan Grickfitti" which was used by demons at the Funtasma Billards Bar during "Guy's Night" before Jerry is kidnapped. Another variation includes the "magic" portals cast by the wizards of Draygon, where immediately Rick expresses his distaste for writing or symbols around the opening. Some other scientifically rational examples which are not listed include the dimensional rift in space caused by Evil Morty's multiverse escape, or the chalk device known to create a doorway to Froopyland on demand. Also, in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort", Rick, Birdperson, and Memory Tammy resourcefully make use of bright pink "memory" portals (generated via extracted Mind-Blower fluid) to reach a string of specified memories within their unconscious minds to avoid their impending brain death. Episode notes: The "entrance" of the time-stabilized gateway to the Narnia dimension is outlined in blue while the "exit" appears orange. These match the default portal colors of the Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device in Portal 1 & 2. A green portal signifying interdimensional travel may be based on similar rifts seen in the classic FPS game from the late 90's, Half-Life. The Xen Portals created during the Resonance Cascade Incident were green, and also capable of transporting organic matter across the multiverse. Alien creatures were randomly transported to most of the American Southwest prior to the arrival of The Combine, which are in some respects similar to the Galactic Federation. The design of the Interspatial teleportation device used by President Curtis is reminiscent of Nether Portals featured in Minecraft, as both appear to be built from a structural doorway and require an "ignition" source to activate. Trivia: Before Rick is approached by Rick Prime in the Brainalyzer memory sequence, a short delay can be observed between the timing of the entrance and exit of Rick's apple experiment. He is seen tinkering with a prototype of an unreliable portal gun, attempting simple interspatial teleportation. Oddly, his early work on these tests seems to show a lack of conservation of momentum... at least when teleporting fruit. Due to logical nature of the butterfly effect it can be assumed that because Jerry hadn't yet fallen from the exterior of the passenger jet by the time he was offered assistance by the Snake-Human Hybrid specifically equipped to catch him if he slipped, his would-be savior may have in fact been sent from an alternate timeline where Jerry met his demise shortly before, or even after the plane touched down on the runway. This suggests his species used a form of intertemporal travel capable of voyaging through various probable timelines to reach Morty's Father. The time-stabilized gateway leading to Hoovy's homeworld appears to be spatially anchored-in-place and is never shown to deviate from the point of origin. It could be speculated that this behavior is indicative of the doorway not being a manufactured portal, but something more analogous to a naturally occurring interdimensional rift, later modified by Rick with a "zipper" mechanism designed to preserve general relativity on each side as long as the portal is in a closed state. A case could be made that the parallel determination shunt (reset button) device may also be a type of fringe portal technology but is designed to transport the calibrated user's consciousness instead of their current physical body. This has confused some fans as the "merge" functionality would seem to be able to layer hundreds (or even thousands) of separate reset points into the current dimension which would now be inundated with paradoxes and contradictions, effectively rendering cause and effect seemingly meaningless. 