 The Purpose Robot (previously the Butter Robot) is a small, two armed, mobile, sentient robot Rick Sanchez created for fulfilling niche tasks (purposes) for him, greatly dissatisfied with each one. First created with the sole purpose of passing butter, the Purpose Robot is later assigned the purposes of breaking out of a cell, and pulling a lever to release Rhett Caan from his cell. History: In "Something Ricked This Way Comes" upon its creation, the "Butter Robot" asks Rick, "What is my purpose?", in response, Rick tells it to pass the butter. Moments after completing its task, the Robot repeats, "What is my purpose?" Rick clarifies that it passes butter. It looks down realizing its sole reason for existence is for something so mundane and says "Oh my god." Rick responds "Yeah, welcome to the club, pal." Later on, while Rick is dining alone, the Robot passive-aggressively slams a whole stick of butter in Rick's food tray, then spurns his offer to see a movie by answering: "I am not programmed for friendship." The Robot makes its last appearance in the same episode as Morty's science fair project held up inside a sandwich bag after Rick gives it to Morty. Its last word on screen is "Butter". In the Rick and Morty #50 double-length story arc "Morty's Mind Blowers" (a sequel to the episode of the same name), in a memory later erased by Rick, Morty is revealed to have befriended and repurposed the Butter Robot to serve as a more all-encompassing "Purpose Robot", using them to attempt to escape a cell with Rick, before the Robot is crushed by a guard. The Purpose Robot returns in a Rick and Morty commercial for Old Spice, and is tossed around, and eventually eaten, and destroyed by three giant anthropomorphic Old Spice spray cans. The Purpose Robot returns in a Rick and Morty commercial for Wendy's. The rebuilt Purpose Robot returns in "Full Meta Jackrick" (Rick having agreed to use him for multiple purposes), reactivated by Rick in order to free Rhett Caan from his cell. On asking Rick "What is my purpose?" again, in response, Rick tells it to pull the lever when he tells him to. Moments after learning this, the Robot responds, "You are fucking kidding me", before nonetheless pulling the lever when Rick indicates for him to. Trivia: Justin Roiland has stated that the Purpose Robot (originally referred to in "Something Ricked This Way Comes" as the Butter Robot) is voiced by a talking app he used for two weeks when he threw out his voice while voicing Lemongrab on Adventure Time. Pocket Mortys:  In Pocket Mortys, Butter Robot (later rebranded Purpose Robot) can be created by combining Robot with Tin Can.    Butter Me Up Rick The Ricktatorship  Appearances: Issue #50: "Morty's Mind Blowers" (sequel to "Morty's Mind Blowers") Rick and Morty Old Spice Commercial Rick and Morty Wendy's Commercial 2 Pocket Mortys Rick and Morty in the Eternal Nightmare Machine Fortnite 