The Save-Point Device is a gadget which allows the Morty to "save" his position in time and return to it, like in a video game. Though later, Rick reveals the device was actually moving Morty to a new, alternate dimension each time. Following what Morty considered a 'failure' on Rick's account, in attempting to fake his death with a vat of acid, Morty challenges Rick's capabilities and whether he could make the Save-Point device. Rick, enraged by Morty's sudden criticism and doubt, immediately begins work on the device and finishes around 3 am, calling Morty to The Garage. He pretends he is going to kill Morty, actually stunning him, and then using the device to jump to just before he did, exhibiting the power of the device. He then releases Morty to go wild with it. Morty engages in a variety of activities, initially benign, like pranking his teacher, but growing more and more severe as he gets out of each situation without consequence. Eventually, he began doing things like throwing an old man out of his wheelchair, running over pedestrians, and 'suicide by cop.' During his escapades, he meets a girl at a coffee shop, and they immediately hit it off. Their relationship blossoms, and Morty quickly forgets about using the device again, which was saved to just before he met her. They meet each other's families, though have a couple rocky moments. Morty decides to buy them tickets to Alaska. While on the plane to Alaska, an engine blows out and crashes in the frozen wastes. The few survivors, including Morty and his girlfriend, are barely able to survive, eating vegan leather shoes and eventually, the frozen corpse of another passenger. Morty resolves himself and sets out to find the tail end of the plan, braving the cold night and wolves, before finding the wreckage. He finds the Save-Point device, but sets it aside in favor of calling 911 and preserving his relationship. The survivors are rescued. Morty is happy to be home and safe with his family again, as well as with his girlfriend. However, Jerry picks up the Save-Point device and resets it, sending Morty to back before he ever began his new loving relationship. When he desperately tries to explain to her about what happened, she pepper sprays him and runs away, causing him to fall on the device and save his point mid-spray. Morty then uses the device to commit suicide several times in a row by jumping into the gorilla enclosure at the zoo. When Morty tries to tell Rick that he learned something from using the device, Rick reveals the device functioned a little differently than expected, and that Morty in fact did all the things he used the device for, switching between dimensions, leaving a trail of alternate dimension Mortys dead in his wake. A red button, which saves the user's place. A blue button, which sends the user back to their save point. 