 Suicide Spaghetti is the main focus of "That's Amorte". It is a special type of spaghetti that is created when the citizens of 41-Kepler B commit suicide. Description: When a Spaghetti Person commits suicide, the cortisol binds the starch levels in their bloodstream their intestines turn into spaghetti noodle while the surrounding issues turn into bolognese. Based on the reactions of the Smith Family, it seems to be more delicious than normal spaghetti, but its dark origin can make people too disgusted to eat it. Modified subspecies of the Spaghetti People (notably the Torsos) are also capable of producing suicide spaghetti, although it is generally considered inferior. History: After discovering this spaghetti, Rick started offering it to his family every tuesday. However, after Morty found out about its origin, he demanded to go to the funeral of one of the victims and confess what he did. His confession got the attention of Madame President, who decided to turn suicide spaghetti into a popular food brand. She made life on her own planet depressing in order to get as many citizens as possible to commit suicide and produce spaghetti, which would be sold to aliens from neighboring planets. The president made it clear that the spaghetti trade cannot stop or the global economy will collapse, so Rick and Morty had to find other solutions. They tried to create a indoctrination program where they convince clones to commit suicide, but the clones escaped and did a mutual murder suicide, which doesn’t count for the spaghetti. Rick then tried using clones that are just sentient torsos, but protesters blew up the factory producing them. At that point, the aliens who ordered the spaghetti lost their patience and invaded 41-Kepler B. To solve everything, Rick made a planet-wide broadcast showing the life and death of the Spaghetti Person Fred Bunks, and then picked up the spaghetti from his body. The invading aliens lost their appetite for spaghetti after watching it, and the trade stopped for good.  Trivia: After Rick lost his appetite for spaghetti, he switched to Salisbury steak, which is stated to have a much darker origin. 