 41-Kepler B (more commonly known as Spaghetti Planet) is a planet where people who commit suicide have their organs turned into spaghetti.  Biography:: It debuted in the episode "That's Amorte", where Morty finds out the spaghetti that Rick serves to the family is from this planet. Morty finds the whole situation morally reprehensible and immediately confesses to the situation at a funeral for one of the people they ate, against Rick's protests. He also tells his family, though he is annoyed when they are more disappointed at the loss of their spaghetti nights than the fact they were eating people. The president of 41-Kepler B contacts Morty after hearing about the funeral confession and offers Morty some "ethically-sourced" spaghetti, from a sickly person who sought assisted suicide and accepted their fate as food.  This results in the planet turning the spaghetti into a full industry, selling cans of "MortyO's Suicide Spaghetti" across the galaxy. Morty proposes this is still ethical upon noticing the cans have messages from the people the spaghetti came from, until Rick brings him back to Spaghetti Planet and reveals the government have resorted to encouraging depression in the people in order to keep up with the demand. The president of Spaghetti Planet protests that they need to keep the spaghetti trade open or else it will destroy the global economy, which could prove much more destructive. Rick offers one last alternative: take the last person on the planet who is willing to kill themselves and genetically clone the spaghetti so people can still get their fix. However, they will broadcast a flashback of the man's life for the whole planet to see. As expected, the person's insides turn into spaghetti after he dies. However, having witnessed the entirety of Fred's life in all its nuances, no one wants to eat him or the spaghetti anymore. Rick explains to Morty it was never about it being right or wrong to eat dead people, and Rick loses his appetite for the spaghetti from having seen Fred's life, ending the spaghetti industry on the planet for good. Trivia: The name of this planet is similar to the real-life Kepler-41b.