 Alpha Centaurus is a planet featured in JuRicksic Mort. Like many other planets, it was once inhabited by Dinosaurs, who later went extinct due to a meteor impact. History: Dinosaurs originated on Earth, but after they succeeded in making the planet harmonic, some of them left to help life on other planets, including Alpha Centaurus. However, there was also a hate-filled species of sentient meteors that targeted dinosaurs, and one of them crashed on Alpha Centaurus, making the dinosaurs go extinct there. The fossils of the dead dinosaurs were eventually found by an sapient fish-like species. Unlike the ones from Tamorus Lite and Ronkonkoma, the inhabitants of Alpha Centaurus actually managed to figure out the dinosaurs’ anatomy correctly when putting together the bones. The inhabitants also theorized that the dinosaurs were heavily involved with skateboarding, even believing they had a second brain in their butt dedicated to pulling 1080s and that the meteor impact crater was actually a skateboarding area used by them. This was the third planet visited by Rick and Morty when they were investigating the dinosaurs. Suspicious of the fact that every planet visited by dinosaurs was once ruined by a meteor impact, Rick investigated the planet’s crater and discovered a piece of the apocalyptic meteor. Analyzing it, he was able to find out about the existence of the meteor species. Inhabitants: The planet’s only known habitants are small humanoid fish-like creatures. They are red, have two fins and large eyes. Their society seems decently advanced in architecture and technology. While they were able to figure out the dinosaurs’ anatomy correctly unlike the inhabitants from other planets, they are still a bit dimwitted, as they weren’t able to tell the “large skateboarding indentation” was actually a meteor crater. Trivia: In the post-credits scene of Juricksic Mort, the dinosaurs are seen skateboarding in large craters, meaning the citizens of Alpha Centaurus were actually right about them being associated with it. "Alpha Centaurus" is derived from the name of the star system Alpha Centauri. 