Dimension C-131, (also known as the Replacement Dimension or the Frundled Dimension), is a dimension in the multiverse to which Rick Sanchez and Morty Smith traveled in the episode "Rick Potion No. 9" after escaping the Prime Dimension. The mainline Beth and Summer originate from this dimension. History: Dimension C-131 is a dimension that is apparently identical to Morty's original dimension, a dimension in which Rick accidentally turned everyone into Cronenbergs. Being too lazy to change things back to normal, Rick traveled to an alternate dimension where his counterpart had been lucky with the situation (and did fix it) and was also conveniently killed by a failed experiment alongside Morty. When they arrived, they took the dead bodies of that dimension's versions of themselves, buried them in the backyard, and continued in this timeline. In "Morty's Mind Blowers", it is revealed that, at one point, Morty discovered that Dimension C-131 was run by squirrels, who managed an elaborate underground conspiracy. When the squirrels found out he knew too much and started chasing after him, Morty ran back to Rick who neutralized the rodents and told Morty they had to move to another universe. Although behind the scenes, Rick and Morty solved the problem with the squirrels, because in subsequent episodes the crack around the Smith house from "Ricksy Business" and "A Rickle in Time" is still shown with the characters mentioning past events such as in "Amortycan Grickfitti". When Rick sought to destroy the Galactic Federation in "The Rickshank Rickdemption", he teleported the Citadel into the Galactic Federation Prison of Dimension C-131. When the Citadel managed to extract itself from the prison, the Ricks and Mortys chose to remain in Dimension C-131. In  "Solaricks", Earth became infected by Mr. Frundles after Jerry C-131 released him into the world, forcing the titular Smith family to settle in another dimension. As shown in "Mortyplicity", in the far future, the Earth eventually healed from its Frundlfication, and the world is re-inhabited slowly by animal-descended humanoids, eventually recreating  both the 'wild west' age of humanity, and later Christianity. After all this, Glockenspiel Jerry is the last surviving member of the Smith family from this dimension. Notable Sub-locations: Galactic Federation Bird World Froopyland Appearances: "Rick Potion #9" "Raising Gazorpazorp" "Rixty Minutes" "Something Ricked This Way Comes" "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" "Ricksy Business" "A Rickle in Time" "Mortynight Run" "Auto Erotic Assimilation" "Total Rickall" "Get Schwifty" ”The Ricks Must Be Crazy” (cameo; in the post-credit scene) "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez" "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate" "Look Who's Purging Now" "The Wedding Squanchers" "The Rickshank Rickdemption" "Rickmancing the Stone" "Pickle Rick" "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy" "Rest and Ricklaxation" "The Ricklantis Mixup" (cameo; in the pre-intro and post-credits scenes) "Morty's Mind Blowers" "The ABC's of Beth" "The Rickchurian Mortydate" "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" "The Old Man and the Seat" "One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty" "Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty" "Rattlestar Ricklactica" "Never Ricking Morty" "Promortyus" "The Vat of Acid Episode" "Childrick of Mort" "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri" "Mort Dinner Rick Andre" "Mortyplicity" "A Rickconvenient Mort" "Rickdependence Spray" "Amortycan Grickfitti" "Rick & Morty's Thanksploitation Spectacular" "Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion" "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort" "Forgetting Sarick Mortshall" "Rickmurai Jack" "Solaricks" "Rickfending Your Mort" (indirectly mentioned) Notable Inhabitants: Rick Sanchez (formerly) Morty Smith (formerly) Summer Smith (C-131) (formerly) Beth Smith (C-131) (formerly) Space Beth (C-131) (formerly) Jerry Smith (C-131)  Jerry Smith (5126) (formerly) Rick Sanchez (C-131) (formerly) Morty Smith (C-131) (formerly) Morty Jr. Mar-Sha Gwendolyn Mr. Needful Mr. Goldenfold King Flippynips Jessica Brad Tammy Birdperson Abrodolph Lincoler Nancy Squanchy  Gearhead Fart Krombopulos Michael Unity Beta Seven Mr. Poopybutthole Mr. Meeseeks The President General Nathan Ice-T Gene Vagina Ethan (C-131) Zeep Xanflorp Arthricia Lighthouse Keeper  Trivia: According to The Rick and Morty Soundtrack, it appears that this dimension's designation is C-131, as the songs Get Schwifty and Raised Up are marked as such.