Dimension 35-C is an alternate dimension that Rick and Morty visited in the Pilot episode. Description: Dimension 35-C consists of an alternate and highly bizarre version of Earth that is run by countless aliens. It is a very colorful world filled with a yellow sky, green clouds, and rock formations with eyes. Several bizarre, strange-looking creatures inhabit the wilderness. One of them being a giant, spider-like creature that chased Rick and Morty. There is also a winged butt and what appears to be a blob of body parts. There are also stationery anemone like creatures that have three eyes large flying insectoids and a flying eyeball Odd plants and indigo grass litter the surface. The only plant given a name was the Mega Tree, which highly resembled a man's privates. There are also a number of blue crystals, yellow cones with green holes, blob like trees yellow ribbon like plants purple circles on the ground purple roots green plants with many holes and large slimy balls on light Orange Spires with many tentacle like appendages large kidney like plants and giant fungus There is also at least one city with tall, futuristic buildings. There is also a town that appears to have been inspired by Dr. Seuss. The town has interdimensional customs run by the Galactic Federation. Several planets, one closely resembling Saturn, as well as some asteroid fields, appear to be very close to this dimension's Earth, as they're clearly visible during the day. History: Rick and Morty went there in search of Mega Trees, which had fruit containing seeds that Rick considered extremely important to his research. Morty walked straight off a cliff and broke both of his legs, but Rick managed to heal them by visiting another dimension with more advanced medicine. Due to this trip, the portal gun was empty and they traveled back to Earth by interdimensional customs and Morty had to conceal the mega seeds up his butt. Before this, Rick and The Flesh Curtains had gone there as part of their world tour.  Trivia: This is the first alternate dimension other than the dimension from the first 6 episodes to be shown in the series. In this universe the Galactic Federation is very developed, it knows how to create portals to other universes, unlike the Galactic Federation in the Prime Dimension and Dimension C-131.As shown in Birdperson's flashback of the Battle for Blood Ridge in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort", the Galactic Federation still knows the basics of teleportation, but can only move within the same universe. As shown in Birdperson's flashback of the Battle for Blood Ridge in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort", the Galactic Federation still knows the basics of teleportation, but can only move within the same universe. Considering that Rick made it so the other Ricks can only access universes inside of the Central Finite Curve, it's unknown if this dimension has any versions of Rick and Morty.  Appearances: "Pilot" 