Dimension J19ζ7 (Jay-Nineteen-Zeta-Seven) is the universe where Doofus Rick and Doofus Jerry come from. Trivia: A lot of Ricks joke that Dimension J19ζ7 is the dimension where everybody eats their own feces, but Doofus Rick constantly denies this.In the commentary track for the episode "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind" on the season 01 Blu-ray/DVD, Justin Roiland confirms that Doofus Rick does not eat his own feces, suggesting that Dimension J19ζ7's theme doesn't revolve around eating feces (and by extension, meaning that the other Ricks were merely bullying Doofus Rick). In the commentary track for the episode "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind" on the season 01 Blu-ray/DVD, Justin Roiland confirms that Doofus Rick does not eat his own feces, suggesting that Dimension J19ζ7's theme doesn't revolve around eating feces (and by extension, meaning that the other Ricks were merely bullying Doofus Rick). While he's the least intellectual Rick aboard the Citadel, Doofus Rick is still most likely the smartest man from Dimension J19ζ7, as the Central Finite Curve walls off any realities featuring an inferior Rick.It could be that what makes him the smartest person, is that he may be the only one in the universe who doesn't eat their own feces. It could be that what makes him the smartest person, is that he may be the only one in the universe who doesn't eat their own feces. Since Doofus Rick never married nor had any children, Beth, Summer, and Morty do not exist in this universe.This also makes this one of the few known dimensions where Jerry and Beth never married. This also makes this one of the few known dimensions where Jerry and Beth never married. This is the home dimension of Doofus Jerry, who was the ruler of Earth before he took over The Citadel.  Doofus Jerry was later defeated (by accident) by our current Jerry by vomiting portal fluid (developed by Dimension J19ζ7 Doofus Rick and ingested by Jerry) that summoned a giant worm from another dimension and swallowed Dimension J19ζ7 Doofus Jerry.  The worm was then killed by Rick. Appearances: Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind (mentioned) Rick and Morty Issue 21 Rick and Morty Issue 22 Rick and Morty Issue 23 Site Navigation: