Draygon is a fantasy world where different types of dragons live. History: In Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty, Rick promised Morty a dragon if he helped him on his adventure to retrieve the "Ultimate Cube". However, the cube was purple, and Rick was disappointed, as he wanted a cube in a different color. While flying through space, Morty asks when he would get his dragon. Rick forgot about the promise probably to manipulate Morty into helping on the adventure. Morty being stubborn complains about wanting a dragon, so Rick sprays Morty with sleeping gas to shut him up but accidentally makes himself sleep crash his flying car and land him in the hospital. Beth checking on Rick brings up Morty wanting a dragon. Rick, tired of hearing Morty complain, gives him a dragon. A wizard makes Morty sign a contract in blood giving him a book of spells then opening a portal and leave. The portal looks like Rick's but with writing and a black opening and requires a wand to open. Morty gets a red dragon named Balthromaw, who gets tired of listening to Morty's commands. Balthromaw had a dispute with Rick, but they hung out later on. This forms a soul bond and the dragon cheated on Morty with Rick and broke their contract the soul bond seems to give sexual pleasure to the dragon and the person caught in it. The wizard than punishes the dragon for breaking his contract, Rick can feel the pain too since he's connected to the dragons soul. They then go through the portal and went to a different world. Information: Draygon can only be visited using a portal cast by a magic wand. Magic exists here and can be learned by reading and casting spells in a different language. However, science has no effect in the Dragon World, meaning that Rick has a disadvantage as he only uses science, but he later builds a magic gun that he uses to fight. The dragons in the Dragon World are divided into two groups: the slut dragons and the higher dragons. The slut dragons live in the slut caves and seem more openly "slutty" than the higher dragons, but it seems all dragons are sexual. Rick, Morty, and Summer end up meeting the slut dragons to break the soul bond from Rick and Balthromaw by killing the wizard. Trivia: It takes 78 years to hang a dragon to death as explained by Morty and Rick's suffering Balthromaw's hanging. The slut dragons have different views on sexual fetishes. One dragon likes having sex with wooly mammoths; other dragons think it's wrong and are instead interested in "shit play". One of the dragons says, "The man with the ponytail makes a valid point," mistaking Summer for a man.