 Gear World is a planet located in the Gear System. It is the home of Gearhead and other Gear People, and was a part of the Galactic Federation prior to its downfall. Gear World made its first appearance in the Rick and Morty episode, "Mortynight Run." History: Geardude of Gear World joined Rick Sanchez, Birdperson, Squanchy and more to fight the Galactic Federation before they could conquer the whole universe. At some point after the Battle of Blood Ridge, Geardude's funeral was held on Gear World. Rick Sanchez and Morty Smith brought Fart to Gearhead's workshop on Gear World after escaping the Galactic Federation. They were quickly betrayed by Gearhead who tipped off the police on their location. The ensuing spaceship chase went through a gear city where a large part of the city was destroyed when Fart showed a vision to one of the gear police officers, making him steer his ship into another creating a chain reaction. This allowed Rick, Morty, and Fart to escape. Gear World did not see much change after the downfall of the Galactic Federation. Shortly after The Vindicators disbanded, Gear World experienced an alien terror attack, though its outcome is not known. Geography: The planet of Gear World is covered in a metallic mechanical surface, suggesting that the whole planet might have been artificially created. Gear People primarily live in societies with others of their own kind, often in towns or cities. Geartown is a city on Gear World and home to Gearhead's workshop, Cogspot. The city was heavily damaged during the federation's chase after Rick and Morty, and was again damaged when an alien terror attack occurred after the end of The Vindicators. The city has a number of shops, like "Bed, Bath & Gears", and markets. Society: Gear World appears to be similar to Earth, except everything is gear-themed. All food is gear-shaped, and most likely made of gears. The planet is likely made of metal, and the cities are very industrial. Although they are robots, they still have genders, age, and feelings. They attend educational institutions called "gear school", which they progress through as they age. They can choose to go gear college as well. Culture: A number of wars have been fought on Gear World, called the Gear Wars, starting 754 years prior to the events in the episode "Ricksy Business". Festivals like Geartober are annual events on Gear World. Some Gear People appear to believe in spirituality, as some booths are called "MysticGears" and promising to "unlock your inner gear." Twigs are considered highly dangerous to Gear People as they will intertwine with their gears and possibly stop different functions. Gearhead kept his twigs in a box labeled with a skull and bones, which might be a common practice on this planet. When a Gear Person dies, it is common to hold a funeral in their wake. Friends and family typically attend, and a priest may say phrases like: "in nomine Patris et Fili, Gearitus Sanctis" (latin: "in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Gear") before the deceased's body is disposed of.  Appearances: "Mortynight Run" "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort" "How Poopy Got His Poop Back"  