 The Jerryboree is an interdimensional daycare used to look after various versions of Jerry Smith from the multiverse. History: Jerryboree first appeared in Mortynight Run, as a daycare for Jerries. It is located in Furp Rock Plaza on an unregistered cross-temporal asteroid, which has the co-ordinates 3924917. Ricks and Morties are required to fill out a paper including information of their Jerry, including their original dimension, their allergies, length of stay, and reason for drop off. Jerries are then taken to a room of other Jerries, decorated with golf courses, tunnel slides  (see summer slide), and a miniature Titanic 2 model. However, the scenery doesn't seem to appeal to Jerries dropped off here, as most of them wander around, confused. Part of the Jerryboree is a slide that drops into a ball pit into a room that resembles the interior of the Smith House. It is said by the employees that it is an exit, but it simply leads to said room. There is an employee who wears a Beth suit to entertain the Jerries, often inviting them to watch a movie. All the Jerrys will have returned to their original universes after the events of "Solaricks." However, Jerry from the Parmesan dimension visits the Jerryboree again in "Bethic Twinstinct", showing that the business continues to exist. A secret room is located in an undefined place, containing Jerrys whose Ricks and Mortys never came back. The Jerrys there fit this description as well, with some having a shaved head, smoking, and even simply lying on the ground. The entire room is run down, with stains everywhere and torn wallpaper. Although there are many Jerrys in this room, it turns out they can leave anytime they want, but they don't, because "they're Jerrys", coupled with the fact that the world outside the building is comparatively unknown and potentially hostile. The abandoned Jerrys will all have returned to their original universes after the events of "Solaricks". Appearances: "Mortynight Run" "Solaricks" (mentioned) "Bethic Twinstinct"   Trivia: In the non-canon Rick and Morty Issue 49, the Jerryboree was destroyed by Pear-Shaped Jerry. Site Navigation: