The Meta Reality is a dimension which is composed of and exists between the narrative and meta elements of the Rick and Morty multiverse. Unlike other multiverse destinations, this dimension does not appear to be accessed using the traditional Portal Gun. Instead, Rick Sanchez C-137 locates an existing hole in the fourth wall used by Previous Leon, and uses a meta remote which allows himself and Morty to step through the same hole in the fourth wall themselves.  Meta Reality is inhabited by a number of different characters, all of which are heavily meta themselves. When Morty stepped into the dimension while wearing the meta-viewing goggles provided by Rick, the goggles were overloaded from the saturation of meta elements.  Biography:: Although there are self-references and meta storytelling throughout Rick and Morty's adventures, Meta Reality itself is not noted until the beginning of Full Meta Jackrick. Rick and Morty followed Previous Leon through a hole in the fourth wall to get to the Meta Reality. This pursuit led them to encounter Jesus Christ and Story Lord, who have presumably been trapped in the Meta Reality since or before the crash of the Story Train. Story Lord reveals it was his plan to lure Rick and Morty to the Meta Reality. He unleashes Jesus on the titular duo and steals Rick's meta remote, allowing him to escape Meta Reality in pursuit of motivation. Previous Leon manages to latch onto Jesus and drain all of his potential, saving Rick and Morty from the savior's brutality, but leaving them stranded in Meta Reality.  Rick captures Previous Leon, bringing the three of them to the headquarters of the Self-Referential Six. Miss Lead, Flash Back, and ConnieTinuity Error encounter Rick and Morty first, but they manage to blow past and make a dash for the prison. Protago Nick appears and fires a beam which strikes Marvin the Cowardly Security Guard. Marvin quickly retreats away from the chaos breaking out in the headquarters, home to the safe embrace of his loving wife Katie, where he reflects on how he's been able to survive his many dangerous security assignments. Rick manages to shatter Protago Nick's amulet and return the focus to himself, where they are quickly hit by a smash cut grenade, ending up bound and apprehended by Mr. Twist and Miss Lead. Mr. Twist introduces himself and reveals the final twist - that the sixth member of the Self-Referential Six is you. Morty manages to unpin another smash cut grenade, cutting the duo to the prison, where they are seeking out Rhett Caan. Their negotiations are interrupted by the Self-Referential Six, and in a desperate last-ditch effort, Rick releases Rhett, who retcons the entire fortress out of reality, leaving Rick and Morty in a cold, narrative-less void.  Joseph Campbell rescues Rick, Morty, and Previous Leon from the void, bringing them to his respite. Campbell goads Rick into attempting to let Leon jump them ahead to when they already have a way to escape the Meta Reality. It appears to fail, but in fact Previous Leon manages to montage them through several years, seeing Rick collect narrative ore and craft a new device, and seeing Morty grow a beard and become pregnant, all until Previous Leon reveals that he was skipping them ahead. Before Rick and Morty finally escape the Meta Reality with Rick's new device, Joseph Campbell meta encourages Rick to "do some classic adventures, like season 1," to which Rick angrily meta responds "I'm so sick of that f█cking note, what the f█ck does it even mean?!" Known Inhabitants: Connie TinuityError(?) Flash Back(?) Jesus Christ Joseph Campbell Katie Loch Ness Monster Marvin the Cowardly Security Guard Miss Lead(?) Mr. Twist Previous Leon Protago Nick(?) Rhett Caan Story Lord  Appearances: