 The Prime Dimension, (also known as the Cronenberged Dimension or Dimension Prime) is the original of many universes in the multiverse, previously on the Central Finite Curve, and the universe where the titular Morty comes from.  It was the original setting of the TV show from the Pilot, until its Earth was overrun by Cronenbergs in "Rick Potion #9", an event referred to by the surviving Jerry as the "Great Cronening". After this dimension gets taken over by Cronenbergs, Rick and Morty abandon the dimension to reside in Dimension C-131. Formerly, the only known survivors left were Jerry Prime, Beth Prime and Summer Prime who began living out the rest of their lives in this post-apocalyptic world, where they survive by hunting and eating the Cronenbergs. Summer Prime was froze to death by the Citadel Of Ricks in "The Rickshank Rickdemption". Around the same time, Beth Prime got sick and died from an infection caused by the Cronenbergs. Jerry Prime was shot and killed by Rick Prime in "Solaricks". Rick Prime was beaten to death by the titular Rick in "Unmortricken". All of this makes the titular Morty the last surviving human from this dimension. This dimension was misidentified as Dimension C-137 by Morty, as the titular Rick Sanchez was identified as being from Dimension C-137. This led Morty to believe that the Prime Dimension is Rick C-137's home, until it was revealed that Rick Prime originated from this dimension, not Rick C-137. History: In the past, the original Rick of this dimension had abandoned his daughter Beth, but one day, the Rick of Dimension C-137 moved into it and began living with her and the rest of the Smith family, as part of a plan to eventually get revenge on this Rick for killing his family. This dimension first appears in the "Pilot" episode and appears in every episode after then until "Rick Potion #9", wherein it makes its last appearance until season 3. In "Rick Potion No. 9", Rick makes a love potion using vole DNA for Morty to use on Jessica at the school dance. However, the side effects of the potion lead to a disaster. The chemicals in the potion piggyback on the flu virus that Jessica had at the time, causing everyone in Morty's school to fall in love with him. To counteract this, Rick mixes praying mantis DNA with a more contagious strain of the flu virus. Unfortunately, this backfires, turning not only those affected by the original potion, but the entire world (presumably due to the aggressive nature of the flu strain Rick used) into praying mantis creatures that want to mate with Morty, then kill him afterwards. Rick uses another antidote on them, but this again backfires, turning all of humanity into deformed, disgusting monsters known as Cronenbergs (except for Jerry, Beth, and Summer). Unable to solve this increasingly difficult problem, Rick uses interdimensional goggles to locate and eventually travel to a different dimension where his counterpart managed to restore humanity to normal. There, that dimension's version of Rick and Morty died after fixing everything, so the titular Rick and Morty who escaped the Prime Dimension take their places without anyone noticing. Meanwhile, alternate versions of Rick and Morty from yet another dimension where everyone is born a Cronenberg, named Cronenberg Rick and Cronenberg Morty, do exactly the same thing in their dimension and turn everyone into normal humans. They leave their own dimension and enter the Prime Dimension, where every normal human is now a perfect Cronenberg matching their home dimension. With the Prime Dimension now completely overrun by the Cronenberg species the only three known humans are Jerry, Beth and Summer who are living out the rest of their lives in a post-apocalyptic world, where they survive by hunting and eating the Cronenbergs. Jerry and Beth are now happy with each other in their relationship. They take turns with Summer acting out movies from memory to make up for their lack of entertainment. At the end of "Rick Potion #9", Summer can be seen acting out a scene from Jaws. Beth also mentions that she has finally achieved true happiness now that her father Rick and her son Morty are no longer with her. The Cronenberg species and the rest of the Smith family are apparently far apart enough, that they never interact with each other, for unknown reasons, so both species don't need to worry about each other and the Cronenberg versions of Rick and Morty never have to interact with the Smith family. The Prime Dimension is mentioned again in the episode "Rixty Minutes", when Morty shows Summer the graves in the backyard where Rick and Morty are buried, telling her the whole story of Rick Potion #9. In "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind", Morty refers to himself as being from Dimension C-137, referring to this dimension but confusing it with the one Rick was identified as being from due to not knowing they were from different dimensions. This dimension is also briefly seen in a screen, showing Rick's memories. The memories include Rick putting the helmet on Snuffles from the episode "Lawnmower Dog", Rick holding Morty when he is an infant, and Rick giving the love potion to Morty from "Rick Potion #9". There are also scenes of Rick and Morty flying in the space cruiser, and one of Rick, lying down on the floor, and Morty passing him his canister, but it is unknown if these take place in the old or new dimension. In the episode "Total Rickall", there is a flashback montage to all the funny catch phrases that Rick has used. One of which is one he was using, while playing cards with Snuffles. This has to be the Prime dimension, because Snuffles leaves the family in the episode "Lawnmower Dog", before events of the dimension transition in the episode "Rick Potion #9". There are many other flashbacks of moments in time that actually happened, but none of them prove that they occur in the Prime dimension. The Prime Dimension returns in the episode "The Rickshank Rickdemption", Morty brings the Summer from the new Dimension he and Rick came from in order to show her that Rick doesn't care about anyone and that he always leaves carnage in his wake. It is here, Summer meets the version of herself and her family from this Dimension, who are now more tribal and savage than when they were previously seen years ago. Morty again refers to himself as Morty C-137 in this episode, still thinking that this dimension and C-137 are the same (leading a pair of Ricks from the Citadel to glance at one another, probably because there is no "Morty C-137"). Due to a mix-up by Rick that causes him to send himself, Jerry, and Morty to their original dimensions, Morty is returned to the Prime Dimension in "Solaricks", where he re-encounters his father. In the time since they last visited both Beth and Summer have died, Beth from an illness and Summer due to complications from thawing out of the ice. Rick rescues Morty and reveals the truth: the Rick that killed his Beth and Diane was the original Rick from the Prime Dimension, and that he (Rick C-137) had settled in this dimension to try to wait him out. They venture to that Rick's lair, but Morty convinces Rick that it isn't worth the trouble and they depart. Sometime later, Jerry Prime encounters the very Rick whom Rick and Morty had briefly tried to seek out, who kills him. The comic Rick and Morty Issue 45 is set entirely in the Prime Dimension. Summer is growing increasingly sad, realizing that eventually her parents will die, leaving her entirely alone. Cronenberg-Morty then seeks her out, however, explaining that Cronenberg-Rick has become totally unhinged and evil - due to living with nothing but the other Cronenbergs, which from their perspective are just feral animals. Cronenberg-Rick has assembled a group of the most evil Ricks in the multiverse at his lair in the local observatory, to conduct a magic ritual to summon the absolute worst Rick, "Old God Rick" (a Cthulhu-like demon), who will destroy the entire multiverse. Cronenberg-Morty managed to locate the Space Cruiser that this universe's Rick and Morty left behind on a rooftop in the city (Summer and her family hadn't found it because they avoided the denser concentration of monsters there). Jerry arrives at the last minute to help them fight through to the ship. Cronenberg-Morty intends to use the Neutrino Bomb in the space cruiser to destroy the evil Ricks before they can finish their ritual (which has apparently been de-powered or deteriorated to the point that it will blow up the observatory, but not the entire planet). Morty explains that the ship won't recognize him as a pilot due to being a Cronenberg himself, so he needed to seek out one of them to do it. Summer knocks out Jerry so she can make a suicide run with the ship, explaining as she leaves that she realized she has no future in Dimension Prime, and that she doesn't want to be totally alone left in the post-apocalyptic world after her parents are gone, and this is her chance to be a hero for them. Jerry and Cronenberg-Morty witness the bomb detonating in the distance, killing the evil Ricks, as well as Summer in the process. Jerry then heads back home with Cronenberg-Morty, saying his mother is waiting for him (implying Jerry intends to eat Cronenberg-Morty). This comic is not canon due to the different story that Jerry provides in "Solaricks". Appearances: "Pilot" "Lawnmower Dog" "Anatomy Park" "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!" "Meeseeks and Destroy" "Rick Potion #9" "Rixty Minutes" (mentioned) "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" (cameo; Morty also says "My name is Morty Smith from Earth Dimension C-137" intending to refer to this dimension) "Total Rickall" (indirectly mentioned) "The Rickshank Rickdemption" "Pickle Rick" (mentioned) "Morty's Mind Blowers" (indirectly mentioned) "Rickmurai Jack" (flashback cameo) "Solaricks" Rick and Morty Issue 45 Notable Inhabitants: Rick Prime Morty Smith Prime Jerry Smith Prime Beth Smith Prime Summer Smith Prime Jessica Prime Joyce Smith Prime Leonard Smith Prime Mr. Meeseeks Mr. Goldenfold Prime Gene Vagina Prime Davin Prime Ethan Prime Annie Prime Ruben Prime Dr. Xenon Bloom Prime Poncho Prime Mr. Jellybean Prime Samantha Prime Tammy Prime Brad Prime Nancy Prime Rick Sanchez C-137 (formerly) Summer Smith C-131 (formerly) Unnamed Rick Cops (formerly) References ↑ https://youtu.be/I1Q4FQNSb5c?si=71jrs3TMVMqt3o6n ↑ Rick and Morty Issue 45 ↑ "lifeless eyes, black eyes, like a doll's eyes..." Hajen på Blu-ray 22 augusti 2012 - YouTube 