 Ricks in Federation prison, aliens control our lives, we eat pills for every meal and Jerry is successful. Warps: Customs Wholesome Delight The Poopy Pad Federation Harry Herpson High Federation St.Equis St.Pibbles Church n33dful Store Federation Smithhouse Hass & Milan Blurtfeed Collectibles: Continue further for collectibles.  Earth 01-Tap to enter Intergalactic Customs. And don't mind that kid. He's probably gonna get vaporized anyways. Earth 02-These new buildings seemed to, like, pop up overnight. Earth 03-Ugh. Tourists. Earth 04-Ooo I could use a snack! Let's head into Wholesome Delight! Earth 05-I'm not even sure this place has doors, you have to like, melt in or something. Earth 06-Aw, that's Mr. Poopybutthole's place! It's been a while since our last adventure, why not see what he's up to? Earth 07-I'm SO pissed that they built this stupid pizza box thing over the cute park! I'm not going to even acknowledge its exisistance with a tag. Earth 08-School's gotten a lot weirder. Tap the tag if you're interested. Earth 09-I'd say it's the same-old high school, but it's really not. Earth 10-Mom's been pretty busy with patients since the Federation took over. You can go visit her if you want but be warned, she's PROBABLY drunk. Earth 11-Nothing great happening in this square, keep going. Earth 12-Here you've got both n33dful and our local church. Right next to each other. Don't you think if Mr. Needful was the ACTUAL devil he'd pick a different piece of real estate? Earth 13-You'd be surprised at what passes for dogs these days. Earth 14-Things are, uh, kinda WEIRD at home. You're more than welcome to come in but, just know it's a little different than last time. Earth 15-Ugh, its like Dr. Seuss and HR Giger were the Property Brothers. Earth 16-Meh, this one isn't interesting. If you're hungry, go check out Wholesome Delight. Earth 17-Parking is now somehow EVEN MORE of a nightmare. And with all of the tour buses, so is traffic. We're just like LA now, except with suckier tacos. Earth 18-No tags here. I'm you're pissed about it, go visit an ACTUAL brick-and-mortar store. They could use the help. Earth 19-My favorite moment was when my mom broke BOTH tapes from my Dad's VHS copy. Is that here? Earth 20-I guess James Cameron-themed amusement parks aren't a big draw. Earth 21-This thing will also never let go. It's why they had to close. Earth 22-Oh look, it's Dad's old office! Let's go in, I'm feeling nostalgic. Earth 23-See, Blurtfeed even has a deck! That's gotta be, like, the COOLEST office. Let's go down one and check it out. Earth 24-Oh god, my vertigo is kicking in, can we please move on? Earth 25-I spent a LOT of time riding my bike in this parking lot while dad cried in the car. Oh, to be young again... Earth 26-Ohmygod I LOVE Blurtfeed! I bet their offices are super cool. Should we go in? Earth 27-Oh great, another dildo-ey looking alien building is coming.