 The Smith Residence is the home of the Smith Family - which includes Beth, Jerry, Morty, Summer and Snuffles as well as Beth's father Rick. Series co-creator Justin Roiland confirmed on Twitter that it's set right outside Seattle, Washington. Rick's primary workshop is contained in the garage, which contains large amounts of gadgets which are used on many of the duo's adventures. Rick has been known to expand facilities underneath the property, as well as install features into the house unbeknownst to the rest of the family, such as blast shields (And kill bots) as security measures. History: In the episode Ricksy Business, The Smith Residence was transported to Glorfingr 7, where part of the ground was removed from the earth, leaving a hole in the ground and a huge crack in the driveway. When the house and section of ground returned, the crack and earth shift were still visible and would continue to be in all subsequent episodes. Other dimensions, such as Parmesan Dimension and Dimension C-132 also have the same crack, implying the events of the episode apply to multiple other realities. In the episode Look Who's Purging Now, Summer launched a rocket through the roof of the garage, leaving a hole in the roof. The roof, under repair, would be visible in all subsequent episodes as well. Defenses and Features: Large energy weapons Forcefield Blast doors Turrets Laser grid Device that can create fungus clones that copy the voice of a person but have to be destroyed or else they will devour the planet Laser turret above door Lab underneath house Kill bots Hidden trapdoor where vehicles can be stored Cloning equipment Hologram projector Boombox drones Mind blower room Voice activation Hidden compartments Secret weapon storage Hologram Retractable lab Cloning vat Elevator Interdimensional cable Retractable wardrobe Carnivorous plant deployer Large teleporter Residents: Rick Sanchez Beth Smith Jerry Smith Summer Smith Morty Smith Rick Prime Snuffles Morty Jr. Night FamilyNight RickNight MortyNight BethNight JerryNight Summer Night Rick Night Morty Night Beth Night Jerry Night Summer Rooms: Entryway Room Dining Room Living Room Kitchen Bathroom The GarageRick's Underground Lair Rick's Underground Lair Beth and Jerry's Room Jerry's Man Cave Room Summer's Room Morty's Room Rick's Room Yard Episode Absences: “Mortynight Run” “The Ricks Must Be Crazy” “Rick: A Mort Well Lived” "Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie"  References Site Navigation: