 The Sun is a star which all planets in Earth’s Solar System revolve around. It has a major role in A Rick in King Mortur's Mort, where it’s revealed that despite its hot temperature, the star is home to several citizens. Inhabitants: A civilization of people developed on the sun and built an city on it, thanks to their pseudo-immortality. They created a tradition where people who cut off their penises and threw them into the sun would become Knights of the Sun, an important job for people who seek to maintain peace in the solar system. An important sacred object, the Solar Scepter, was kept in the sun because the inhabitants believed all planets revolved around it. History: on the Restaurant Asteroid, Sir Helios and another knight offered Morty a sword. After he reluctantly accepted it, Helios killed himself and his power took Morty and the other knight to the city on the sun. There, Morty met the rest of the Knights of the Sun and learned about their role and abilities. At first Morty was excited about becoming a knight of the sun, but gave up when he learned that the requirement to become one would be cutting off his own dick. Rick arrived on the sun via portal travel and tried to take Morty with him back to Earth, but they were both stopped by the King of the Sun, who told them they cannot leave unless he is beaten in combat. Using a AI Sword created by Rick, Morty defeated the King in combat, and the latter announced Morty is the new king of the Sun before killing himself. The Knights were confused about Morty becoming the King despite never being a Knight, but they quickly accepted it and followed Morty to Earth. The Knights disbanded after Morty scientifically proved their religion is false and the scepter is useless. Following that, The Sons of the Moon started attacking the Sun, causing it to become more hazardous. A Committee of representatives from nearly all planets in the solar system reunited on an asteroid to discuss the recent attack on the sun, and a solar war started because all of them wanted to obtain the scepter. In the end, the Knights of the Sun reunited on the sun once again and ended the conflict. All representatives reunited in the sun’s castle to watch as Morty tried to keep his promise of cutting off his penis. After his and Rick's attempts to cut a fake penis failed, the two faked their deaths by jumping into a vat of fake sun. The community interpreted their “suicide” as a sacrifice, and thus they maintained peace and ended their painful tradition.  Site Navigation: