 The Vacuum Cleaner Dimension is featured in the post-credit scene of "That's Amorte". This dimension had similar events to the ones that happened in the Parmesan dimension’s 41-Kepler B, but with vacuum cleaners and plant people instead of humans and spaghetti people. History: In this dimension, plant people who died had their organs turned into vacuum cleaner bags, which were used by sentient vacuum cleaners. To end this, an unnamed blue vacuum cleaner made a planet-wide broadcast showing the life and death of a plant person, as well as the origin of vacuum cleaner bags. All vacuum cleaners on the planet vomited dust after watching it. Inhabitants: Vaccum Cleaners:Blue Vacuum Cleaner: This dimension's counterpart of Rick Sanchez.Vacuum Cleaner President: This dimension's counterpart of Madame President. Blue Vacuum Cleaner: This dimension's counterpart of Rick Sanchez. Vacuum Cleaner President: This dimension's counterpart of Madame President. Plant person: This dimension's counterpart of Fred Bunks.  Trivia: Apart from the obvious fact that this dimension has living objects and plants instead of organic people, there are some notable differences from the original 41-Kepler B.In the original dimension, Rick and Morty were present at the euthanasia chamber. In this dimension, only Vacuum Cleaner Rick was present.Humans and spaghetti people are identical in appearance. This is not the case with the vacuum cleaners and plant people.In the original dimension, Madame President was aware of where Suicide Spaghetti came from but did not care about it. In this dimension, the Vacuum Cleaner President was unaware of the vacuum cleaner bags' origin and yelled in shock after finding out.This dimension has nothing similar to the aggressive aliens that invaded the original 41-Kepler B after it ran out of spaghetti. In the original dimension, Rick and Morty were present at the euthanasia chamber. In this dimension, only Vacuum Cleaner Rick was present. Humans and spaghetti people are identical in appearance. This is not the case with the vacuum cleaners and plant people. In the original dimension, Madame President was aware of where Suicide Spaghetti came from but did not care about it. In this dimension, the Vacuum Cleaner President was unaware of the vacuum cleaner bags' origin and yelled in shock after finding out. This dimension has nothing similar to the aggressive aliens that invaded the original 41-Kepler B after it ran out of spaghetti. 