 [...]Rick: Pick up your phone, asshole! When I call it's an actual emergency! "Air Force Wong" is the third episode of the seventh season of Rick and Morty. It is the 64th episode of the series overall. It premiered on October 29, 2023. It was written by Alex Rubens and directed by Jacob Hair. The episode is rated TV-14-LV. Synopsis: President Curtis starts taking Rick's therapist Dr. Wong on his missions which leads Rick to suspect that Curtis wants to date his therapist. Meanwhile an old flame of Rick's takes over Virginia where more tensions and sparks start to rise. Plot: Rick is at therapy with Dr. Wong when he gets a call from President Curtis who needs him to help take down the Loch Ness Monster who has relocated to Lake Erie. While there, Curtis begins to fall in love with Dr. Wong much to Rick's disdain but doesn't interfere. Sometime later, Rick gets another call from President Curtis just as he and Morty were watching Interdimensional Cable. Once there, Curtis tells him that he's heard reports of a rise of a cult in Virginia and need Rick's help to investigate. However he sees that Dr. Wong has also been brought along raising Rick's suspicions of Curtis and Wong dating. Turns out, Virginia is not a sex cult but instead Unity (Rick's ex-lover) has taken over the state of Virginia despite Rick claiming to have agreed with Unity that she would not take over Earth. Rick begins to un-assimilate the people of Virginia by spraying them with "Seperation" a scent he picked up after breaking it off with Unity. As Rick is taking back Virginia, he finds out that Andre (Mr. President) and Helen (Dr. Wong) are now on a first name basis.  Unity tries to explain to Rick that she is here because she is worried for Rick after hearing he is going after Rick Prime yet again. She mentions that she left many voicemails in attempt to contact him. After escaping Virginia, Rick and Andre secure Virginia in an "energy dome" so Unity cannot control Virginia. Though, existance of the dome brings down the president's approval ratings. As Rick and Andre begin to get into an argument over Helen, Unity approaches Earth from her space vessel.  Rick then gets into an argument with Unity over space video call, claiming that he doesn't trust her anymore, saying that: "You ghosted me to focus on your work. Your work is to absorb the universe; my universe. Please go. ...Goodbye." Distraught, Unity departs. After such, Rick states that he is very disaproving of Andre and Helen's relationship and leaves for home. Shortly afterwards, Helen says that she is no longer interested in Andre and also leaves. Rick snaps at Summer when he gets home, claiming to need boundaries. Summer responds by slamming the door and calling him a "fuckface." Rick murmurs an apology.  After apologizing mentally to his mother, Andre proceeds to take over the stasis hivemind in Virginia. Back at home, Rick sees the President on TV using the hive mind to improve his ratings and Rick informs Unity who reluctantly takes over America for him and then with help from Dr. Wong releases them from both herself and Andre. After returning home, Rick checks his voicemail revealing that Unity left him four voice messages checking on him (the fifth being a message from a Scientology member which Rick immediately deletes) making Rick realize that Unity invaded Virginia because she thought he was there. Later that night, Rick visits the President at the White House and shares some drinks with him, the latter deciding he needs to get therapy. In the post credit scene, Mr. Stabby the talk show host that appeared earlier on Interdimensional Cable, is on a talk-show called Garry Live where Garry questions Mr. Stabby on why he killed his audience of 58,000 people with his arms. Mr. Stabby replies that despite the risks, people still voluntary attend the viewings as everyone still talks about what he did to this day. Characters: Rick Sanchez Dr. Wong The President Unity Morty Smith Summer Smith Mr. Stabby Gary Carl Dwayne Fleeflak Onyx Chi-Chi Tom Shonda Jerry Smith (mentioned) Rick Prime (indirectly mentioned) Loch Ness Monster (mentioned) Zigerions (non-speaking cameo) Harolds (cameo) Deaths: 58,000 Mr. Stabby's show atendees (some off-screen) Unknown number of Virginia residents Locations: Parmesan dimensionEarth Earth Episode notes: In celebration of Season 7, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Dr. Wong as an avatar, plus Mr. Stabby Morty and Unity Morty to catch. Rick previously had a relationship with Unity in "Auto Erotic Assimilation". The news mentions mutant turkeys, the abandoned White House orbiting the Earth, and eco-conscious dinosaurs that have happened since President Curtis took office. The spaceship used by Unity is the same type of ship used by Prince Nebulon in "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!". Incidentally, some Zigerions can be seen working for Unity. It is revealed that Unity called Rick multiple times, meaning that the fortune that Rick received, "Your crush will call you", came true in "Final DeSmithation". The episode's title is a reference to the film Air Force One. Gary Live is a parody of Larry King Live with Gary himself being a parody of the late Larry King. 