 This is it. I'm killing myself because of Jerry Smith. The Earth man. Flamingo Dad. Seeing them all cheer as I got my ass whipped made me realize:People Just Want to See Me FAILAll I've ever wanted to do is prove them Wrong-PissMaster "Analyze Piss" is the fifth episode of the sixth season of Rick and Morty. It is the 56th episode of the series overall. It premiered on November 27, 2022. It was written by James Siciliano and directed by Fill Marc Sagadraca. The episode is rated TV-14-DLV.  Synopsis: Tired of being attacked by goofball supervillains, Rick decides to seek advice about why he's always a target, leading to a breakthrough — for Jerry. Plot: After a somewhat unsuccessful battle with Mr. Nimbus, Rick and Morty find themselves once again confronted by various random "90s goofball supervillains" out to get Rick. Morty urges Rick to go to therapy and figure out what he is doing that is causing so many random villains to want to fight him. Dr. Wong hears Rick out and suggests he simply ignore them, giving him the assignment to prove her wrong with scientific evidence. Rick takes up the assignment, which the family initially commends until a new villain by the name of Pissmaster arrives at the Smith residence and starts bullying the family, including crude remarks towards Summer. Jerry, fed up with Rick's lack of action, confronts Pissmaster instead, beating the man into submission as their neighbors film the ordeal. Jerry is soon dubbed a hero for his actions, and is approached to join an intergalactic council of heroes, the centerpiece of which is a (sticky) orb of power. Unsure of what to do with the orb, Jerry recruits Rick's help, and the latter reluctantly builds an exo-suit that harnesses the orb's powers. Jerry quickly becomes an intergalactic hero with the suit, making Rick jealous. He confronts Dr. Wong, claiming her advice didn't work, but Dr. Wong points out that by not interfering with galactic affairs, Rick has gotten what he wanted: he is unburdened from needing to prove his power to other people, and thus he doesn't have to interfere with the rest of the galaxy. At first, Rick is relieved, but soon finds himself bored. Hearing that Pissmaster is now considered a laughing-stock of the universe, Rick finds himself sympathizing with his thwarted enemy and decides to reach out. However, upon arriving at Pissmaster's home Rick is horrified to learn he had committed suicide, with a note claiming it was because of Jerry. Rick resolves to redeem Pissmaster in the eyes of his family and the public by disguising himself as Pissmaster and committing various heroic deeds, planning to culminate in Pissmaster heroically sacrificing himself – to his surprise, an admittedly puzzled Dr. Wong voices that so long as this makes him happy it is worth doing. His actions catch the attention of the council, which causes a shift in opinion of Jerry due to his (warranted) dislike of Pissmaster. The council forces Jerry to grant Pissmaster an orb of power, which Jerry forcefully attempts to do, interfering with Rick's plans and ultimately revealing his identity to the family. Fed up with the two's behavior, the council retracts their offer and ejects Jerry from the council. Not wanting to reveal Pissmaster killed himself because of Jerry, Rick claims he was Pissmaster the whole time, which the family accepts despite the obvious inconsistencies. However, when they get home Rick panics and shows Morty the real Pissmaster's suicide note. Morty refuses to keep this a secret, and promptly tells the whole family, who proceed to berate Rick for his actions while Jerry is horrified that his heroic actions led someone to commit suicide as the episode ends. In a post-credits scene, the council discusses who to invite to replace Jerry, eventually settling on Mr. Nimbus. Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Jerry Smith Summer Smith Beth Smith Pissmaster Dr. Wong  Pissmaster's Daughter Mr. Nimbus Cookie Magneto Mr. Calypso Blagnar the Eternal Mr. Stringbean Doctor Buckles Mr. Goldenfold Gene (cameo) Legion of HitlersPraying Mantis HitlerRiddler HitlerGorilla HitlerRed Alien HitlerBlue Greek HitlerRobot Alien HitlerOld Hitler Praying Mantis Hitler Riddler Hitler Gorilla Hitler Red Alien Hitler Blue Greek Hitler Robot Alien Hitler Old Hitler Deaths: Cookie Magneto Mr. Calypso Pissmaster Space Hitlers Two insect aliens Lizard monster Many octopuses Wizard Locations: Episode notes: In celebration of Season 6, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Flamingo Dad as an avatar, plus Pissmaster Morty and Cookie Magneto Morty to catch. Adult Swim has provided a warning message before the start of the episode due to the presence of suicide in this episode.This is first of 2 episodes to do this, the second is "That's Amorte".On Max, this is the only episode to have a warning message before the start of the episode. This is first of 2 episodes to do this, the second is "That's Amorte". On Max, this is the only episode to have a warning message before the start of the episode. Mr. Nimbus and Dr. Wong appear in the episode who previously appeared in “Mort Dinner Rick Andre” and “Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri”. After years of trying to avoid it, going so far as to turn himself into a Pickle, Rick finally attends a therapy session with Dr. Wong of his own accord. Although she doesn't appear in this episode, there is a seat for Space Beth at the Smith family dinner table. The day after Jerry and Pissmaster’s fight, Summer, Jerry, and Morty are eating Strawberry Smiggles at the dinner table which were previously featured in “Rixty Minutes”. Jerry mentions how his bees need lavender when Pissmaster sprays his lavender bushes, referencing his beekeeping hobby in “Promortyus”. Rick couldn’t save Pissmaster from his death, similar to how Rick couldn’t save Ruben from dying in “Anatomy Park”. The episode's title is a reference to the film Analyze This. Rick mentions the comic character, The Tick, when mentioning how he doesn’t want to fight 90’s goofball supervillains. Jerry’s Flamingo Dad Armor bears a resemblance to the Marvel Comics character, Iron Man. Rick suiting up as Pissmaster references the suit up sequence in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film, Iron Man. Jerry wondering if he can eat the orb like spinach, references the titular character from the comic strip, Popeye. Beth and Summer mention news sites, Buzzfeed and Jezebel as two sites talking about Jerry’s heroism. Rick appears on the newspaper, Newsweek, when performing heroic acts as Pissmaster. Rick’s staged heroic sacrifice resembles Batman’s staged sacrifice in The Dark Knight Rises. One of the members of the council suggest getting actress Scarlett Johansson to join them. 