"Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" is the tenth episode of the first season of Rick and Morty. It is the tenth episode of the series overall. It premiered on April 7, 2014. It was written by Ryan Ridley and directed by Stephen Sandoval. The episode is rated TV-14-DLSV, and has 9.3 stars on IMDB. It is in #6 in IMDB's Top 10 Rick and Morty Episodes and is considered one of the best Rick and Morty Episodes of all time. Synopsis: Rick's just trying to enjoy a nice breakfast, but he's kidnapped by a group of alternate Ricks and taken to stand trial for crimes against Ricks. Plot: When 27 Ricks from alternate dimensions end up murdered and their respective Mortys are kidnapped, the Trans-Dimensional Council of Ricks orders the arrest of Rick C-137 (the show's original Rick) and accuses him of the crimes due to his refusal to participate in their affairs. Angry that he was framed, Rick escapes the Council with Morty to go after the real culprit who set him up and finds that another Rick is supposedly responsible for murdering their counterparts while stealing their Mortys to conceal his presence. Meanwhile, as Morty begins to believe that he's nothing but a tool to protect Rick, Jerry begins to bond with Rick J19ζ7, the kindest Rick in all of the realities. After Morty leads a rebellion of alternate Mortys against the "evil" Rick, three Ricks from the Council of Ricks discover that the "evil" Rick was being mind-controlled. It is revealed to the audience that he was being controlled by "his" Morty, who destroyed his eyepatch to avoid being recognized. In the Post Credit Scene, Jerry is in Rick's room missing Doofus Rick, a version of Rick that he made friends with before assuring Rick, who just came in, that nothing's wrong. Upon going to the dining room, he sees Doofus Rick and waves at him before Rick laughs at him for being friends with him and decides to call his other variants about it. Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Evil Rick Evil Morty Doofus Rick Council of Ricks Riq IV Rick Prime (Council of Ricks) Quantum Rick Maximums Rickimus Zeta Alpha Rick Ricktiminus Sancheziminius Jerry Beth Summer Target Dimension Rick Target Dimension Morty Target Dimension Jerry Target Dimension Beth Target Dimension Summer Cyclops Rick Cyclops Morty Cronenberg Rick Cronenberg Morty Long Sleeved Morty Yellow Shirt Rick Blue Shirt Morty Cowboy Rick Cowboy Morty Fish Rick Fish Morty Artist Morty Solicitor Rick Robot Rick Robot Morty Antenna Rick Toy Morty The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick Alien Rick Alien Morty Tortured Mortys Eric Stoltz Mask Morty Cult Leader Morty Antenna Morty Hammerhead Morty Snowball (Flashback) Mr. Meeseeks Dr. Xenon Bloom Abradolf Lincler A Zigerion Deaths: 27 Ricks from different timelines (including Target Dimension Rick and The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick) At least 3 Ricks at the Citadel At least 7 Crab Spiders Evil Rick Locations: Smith Residence Citadel of Ricks Phone Universe Pizza Universe Furniture Universe 