 Morty: DEAR GOOOD!! "Fear No Mort" is the tenth and final episode of the seventh season of Rick and Morty. It is the 71st episode of the series overall. It premiered on December 17, 2023. It was written by Heather Anne Campbell and directed by Eugene Huang. This episode is rated TV-14-DLV.  Synopsis: When Rick and Morty enter into a mysterious new realm called the Fear Hole, the two must learn to overcome their greatest fears and know what it's like to live with themselves. Plot: Rick and Morty explore a "Carnival of Nightmares" but quickly grow bored after realizing that they're too desensitized to enjoy any of it. A man in a suit, claiming to be a fear connoisseur, approaches and offers to show them the scariest place in the galaxy. The two accept, and the man leads them to what looks like a regular Denny's. They assume they'd been lied to until an employee informs them of the "Fear Hole" in the men's bathroom. Upon investigation, Rick finds a TV/VCR setup beside the hole. The suited man appears in a video explaining that the Fear Hole manifests one's greatest fear, allowing them to conquer it, emerge fearless, and have their picture displayed on the restroom's bulletin board. Morty points out that there are only three photos, despite the Fear Hole existing since VHS tapes.  Uninterested, Rick walks away, but Morty jumps into the Fear Hole. Inside, he faces a dark, monster-infested environment where creatures attempt to dissect him and stuff him with maggots. Rick arrives at the scene to fight off the monsters, rescue Morty, and jump out of the hole to bring him back to safety. Satisfied with their victory, Rick and Morty return home, only to be immediately greeted by a portal from which Diane emerges, from the day Rick lost her. The family, aside from Rick and Morty, is distraught and confused. Both Rick and Morty conclude that they must still be in the hole. They head to the garage to discuss it, where Rick argues that they haven't left the hole because Morty must be afraid of Rick getting Diane back and being happy, no longer needing him. Morty finds Rick's theory backhanded, but Rick drops the conversation and decides to take Diane, Beth, and Morty out for ice cream. At the ice cream shop, Rick's first attempt at talking with Diane goes poorly, causing Morty to suggest that Rick's greatest fear is getting a second chance with Diane and failing. Rick rejects the idea, arguing that the sooner he gets Diane back, the sooner Morty can conquer his fear of "being a useless, lonely turd." The next day, Diane is awakened by a robot invented by Rick that sings an apology and offers her breakfast. It breaks down before finishing its song, but Rick tells Diane it was supposed to invite her to the zoo with the family, an invitation she accepts. The two bond while watching ducks at the pond, then leave to grab drinks. They subsequently get drunk together and share a kiss under the rain. As Rick spends more time with Diane, Morty becomes increasingly concerned about Rick's declining health. He claims that the hole is feeding on Rick, but Rick dismisses the idea and leaves with Diane. Before they leave, Morty expresses that his greatest fear might be watching Rick die. Annoyed, Rick retaliates by telling Morty to stop watching. Tired of being stuck in the hole, Morty returns to the Denny's from earlier and meets with the man in the suit, who gives a speech about how happiness is a trap because it always ends. Morty asks if the hole can release him, but the suited man explains that leaving would mean taking Rick away and that Rick is sure to die before accepting happiness. Back at home, Morty notices reality becoming unstable whenever he faces a fear and concludes that his greatest fear is not being accepted. Determined to escape the hole, Morty plans to overcome this fear by repeatedly exposing himself to it. This catches Rick's attention, and although initially upset, Rick changes his attitude upon seeing how sick Morty looks. Rick says goodbye to Diane and decides to help Morty escape by facing his fears alongside him. They think they succeed but realize that they didn't uncover their greatest fears and are still in the hole. Despite multiple escape attempts, they remain trapped. The cycle continues until Rick remarks that Morty is irreplaceable, which causes him to realize that the Rick he's been with the whole time is also a manifestation of the Fear Hole, and that the real Rick never entered the hole to begin with. Morty figures out that his true fear is his reliance on Rick and him considering Morty replaceable. With this, the fear hole demon (through the fake-Rick) congratulates Morty on completing the process of the Hole. This allows Morty to finally exit the Fear Hole.   Morty awakes to Rick watching him, explaining only one person can enter and asks the nervous Morty of his experience. After Morty mentions that Diane also appeared in the hole, he implores Rick not to enter. Morty asks Rick if he sees him as irreplaceable. Rick then replies with "define irreplaceable", which is enough to satisfy Morty. The pair leave but Rick double backs and becomes tempted to enter but eventually chooses not to. Instead, he leaves a photo of Morty from his wallet on the bathroom bulletin board to celebrate his success.  In the Post Credit Scene, Mr. Poopybutthole tells the audience about how crazy Season 7 has been, and reveals that he stole one of Rick's portal guns during their earlier adventure where they briefly stole his kid. He travels to a reality where he is still happily married with Amy, knocking out and replacing the other version of him, disposing of him and the portal gun back through the portal. He tells the audience how being fulfilled is about having a goal and doing everything to achieve it. Yet, after Amy kisses him, she seems to know there's something off with her husband. Characters: Morty Smith Rick Sanchez (Fear Hole) Diane Sanchez (Fear Hole) Fear Hole Demon Rick Sanchez Jerry Smith (Fear Hole) Summer Smith (Fear Hole) Beth Smith (Fear Hole) Space Beth (Fear Hole) (cameo) Mr. Poopybutthole Floovians (cameo) Marvin (cameo) Jessica (Fear Hole) (cameo) Holly Hooks (Fear Hole) (cameo) Nancy (Fear Hole) (cameo) Mr. Goldenfold (Fear Hole) (cameo) Tricia Lange (Fear Hole) (cameo) Amy (alternate counterpart) (cameo) Poopy Jr. (alternate counterpart) (cameo) Fear Spider Deaths: Young Rick (Fear Hole) Locations: Parmesan Dimension Unknown planetCarnival of Nightmares Carnival of Nightmares Earth Mr. Poopybutthole's Replacement Dimension Episode notes: In the third act, Rick and Morty repeatedly end up back in the Fear Hole after several attempts of escaping. One of these attempts last several decades, where Morty grows up, and among other major life events, attends Summer's wedding with an unknown man. This is a hint to the audience that this cycle, like the others, is not real, and that Morty is in the Fear Hole alone, limiting the events that take place in it to his own knowledge. In real life, Summer is currently dating a girl she saved in "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer" — which Morty does not know. The episode somewhat mirrors a Season 1 episode "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!", as both episodes involve two of the title characters stuck in a convincing copy of their own world and trying to escape it by any means. The difference between the characters' perception is quite different, however: Rick has known he's in a simulation the entire time, while Morty only finds out Rick never entered the Fear Hole near the end of his journey. This is the eighth episode not to feature a cold open, the first seven being "Lawnmower Dog", "Anatomy Park", "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!", "Meeseeks and Destroy", "Rick Potion #9", "Never Ricking Morty" and "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation". In celebration of Season 7, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Virtual Diane as an avatar, plus Fear Hole Morty and Singing Robot Morty to catch. Morty points out the bulletin board only has three pictures despite the Fear Hole itself seeming to have existed since at least the time VHS tapes were popular, with the implication that not many people have conquered the hole. However, when Morty exits the Fear Hole, he is too emotionally drained to celebrate his victory and forgets to put up a photo, prompting Rick to put one up himself. This offers a possible explanation for the lack of photos: those who conquered the Fear Hole simply did not feel like taking a photo and posting it. Adult Swim changed the rating to TV-MA-LSV in recent airings. Rick takes Beth and Diane for ice cream in the fear hole, which is what he was planning on doing in real life right before they died, as shown in "The Rickshank Rickdemption". Morty's young adult form while in the Hole is the same one as the 26-year-old Morty that got removed from him to revert him back from 40 to 14 from "Rickmurai Jack". The show "Cake or Fake" is shown, which was seen in "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer". Rick tells Diane about how she was killed in every universe by Rick Prime, referencing the events that were firstly elaborated in "Unmortricken". Morty uses his spaceship bicycle to travel to Denny's and confront the Fear Hole Demon, which he previously used in "Forgetting Sarick Mortshall". Mr. Poopybutthole mentions the time that he tried to steal his kid, referencing the events of "How Poopy Got His Poop Back". The reality Mr. Poopybutthole goes to mirrors the after credits scene in "The Rickchurian Mortydate". The episode's title is a reference to the film Fear No Evil. The Fear Hole Demon bears a resemblance to Rod Serling, the creator, original host and narrator of the television series The Twilight Zone. The promotional video of the Fear Hole was taped over by a Mountain Dew commercial featuring Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi. Rick mentions the film You've Got Mail when talking about how all rom-coms have an arc. Rick and Diane discuss their relative dimensions' version of the television series Lost, particularly how each one ended. The opening of the Fear Hole resembles the entrance of the Mirror Cave in the film Star Wars: The Last Jedi. 