 Morty: Opening titles of what!? "Full Meta Jackrick" is the seventh episode of the sixth season of Rick and Morty. It is the 58th episode of the series overall. It premiered on November 20, 2022. It was written by Alex Rubens and directed by Lucas Gray. The episode is rated TV-14-LV. Synopsis: Rick and Morty find themselves caught in a confusing, meta-powered loop of adventures, leading to a showdown with an unmotivated nemesis. Plot: The episode starts off a Recap sequence, but Rick suspects something wrong about it. Soon Rick and Morty are confronted by Previous Leon, a creature who injects venom on his prey and also did the recap sequence. Rick and Morty counteract with Leon's toxins and then fly on him through the opening title sequence, with Morty asking what's going on in it. After escpaing, Leon is grabbed by Rick, who tells Morty not to listen to his meta. Leon tries to kill Morty with a gun Rick tackles him, flying away. Shot by Rick, wounding him, Leon escapes through a Meta Layer through the fourth wall. Knowing the danger of letting Leon escape, Rick takes Morty through the meta layer into the Meta Reality. They manage to get to Leon but Leon summons Jesus Christ who in turn summons the Story Lord who managed to escape from the Story Train. Story Lord reveals that he has grown weary of just being someone the duo previously fought and plans to obtain motivation in order to be more than just a fictional character. While Jesus battles Rick and Morty, Story Lord openly betrays Jesus much to the latter disbelief and is then ambushed by Previous Leon who traps him in his recap venom. Rick then knocks out Leon, intending to take him to the Self-Referential Six. The two with Leon arrive at the groups' fortress where they clash with the members; Miss Lead (establishes expectations and subverts them), Flash Back (enters and observes past events), Connie TinuityError (warps reality making it inconsistent with the past), Protago Nick (makes any character a protagonist), and Mr. Twist (creates plot twists). Mr. Twist manages to capture Rick and Morty but Morty frees them by releasing the pins on Mr. Twist's Smash Cut grenades. Heading to the dungeons, Rick intends to free Rhett Caan a powerful character who has the ability to warp reality through his words. After broking a deal with Rhett Caan, Rick frees him from his cell just as the Self-Referential Six arrive, but he immediately regrets the decision when Rhett Caan kills Connie with coffee and paralyzes Mr. Twist by removing his bones. Rick and Morty start to run but Rhett Caan places the fortress in the void and then turns the fortress into an orange. Meanwhile Story Lord teleports to Citadel Toyz LLC. the company that makes the story trains. There, he confronts his creator Jan who reveals that the character was flawed from the beginning and the company had no use for him once he was used up. Irritated, Story Lord take Jan with him in order to get more motivation. Back in the Meta Reality, Rick and Morty are stuck in the frozen wasteland of the narrative-less void thanks to Rhett Caan when they're saved by Joseph Campbell who also saved Previous Leon. In the post credit scene, Tag-Man, another Meta Reality character and possible member of the Self-Referential Six fights in an arena and easily destroys his opponents while noting that he misses his wife. Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Story Lord Jesus Christ Previous Leon Jan Joseph Campbell Beth Smith Summer Smith Jerry Smith Space Beth Jack the Ripper Jerry Jr. Tony Hawk Mary Self-Referential SixMiss LeadFlash BackConnie TinuityErrorProtago NickMr. Twist Miss Lead Flash Back Connie TinuityError Protago Nick Mr. Twist Rhett Caan Tag-Man Marvin the Cowardly Security Guard Katie Napoleon Bonaparte Count Dracula Purpose Robot Tricia Lange (cameo) Joyce Smith (cameo) Leonard Smith (cameo) Jacob Philip (cameo) Bullies (cameo) Goomby (mentioned) Leah (mentioned) Tickets Please Guy (mentioned) Mr. Nimbus (mentioned) Deaths: Story Lord Robot Skull headed creature Giant crustacean alien Fire horned Warrior tentacled mushroom Many cops Five soldiers Five businesspeople Miss Lead Flash Back Connie TinuityError Protago Nick Mr. Twist Locations: OmniverseMultiverseParmesan dimensionEarthSmith ResidenceMeta Reality MultiverseParmesan dimensionEarthSmith Residence Parmesan dimensionEarthSmith Residence EarthSmith Residence Smith Residence Meta Reality Episode notes: Rick says that Adolf Hitler was a Catholic. While it is true that during his childhood, Hitler was a Catholic, by the time he took power in Germany, he grew to hate the Catholic Church. This episode features an edited version of the opening, with Rick and Morty hanging onto Previous Leon and flying through all of the scenes. In the “Inside the Episode” video for the episode, the episode’s title is spelt as “Full Meta JackRick”. In celebration of Season 6, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Leon as an avatar, plus Story Lord Morty and Jesus Christ Morty to catch. Both URLs mentioned in the episode are registered in real life.  www.rick-plush.biz links to a page advertising the Rick plush appearing in the episode, but states that it is "unavailable in this reality".  www.story-train.com links directly to the Adult Swim page for Rick and Morty. Continuing from the meta-acknowledgement of Dan Harmon's "Story Train" concept drawn from Joseph Campbell's "The Hero's Journey" as depicted in "Never Ricking Morty", Jan the writer is depicted as a stand-in for Harmon (whose own struggles with writing are depicted in the documentary Harmontown), and Harmon himself voices Joseph Campbell. This episode continues from the events of "Never Ricking Morty", with Story Lord explaining he escaped from the train, and Morty only knowing him as the villain of the story train rather than as someone he and Rick previously fought. The recap sequences within the cold open features scenes from “Bethic Twinstinct“ and “JuRicksic Mort”. The Purpose Robot remains rebranded as multipurpose from the second "Morty's Mind Blowers". The lead bully from "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" is shown chasing Marvin the Security Guard, implying he is still alive despite appearing missing in "The Old Man and the Seat". Rick still has his six pack from "Night Family". During their fight, Story Lord mentions how he wants to be in the new Mr. Nimbus, a character from “Mort Dinner Rick Andre”. Tricia Lange appears in Jerry’s funeral, referencing her interest in Jerry and his beekeeping hobby in “Promortyus”. The episode's title is a reference to the film Full Metal Jacket. In the previously on segment, professional skateboarder Tony Hawk is seen as he mentions solving a murder with Rick and Morty. In the previously on segment, it is seen raining meatballs, a reference to Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs. Rick mentions the film, Space Jam: A New Legacy, when mentioning how every second in the Meta Reality equals to ten cameos in the film.Rick’s mention of the film also references that Rick and Morty also made cameo appearances in the film. Rick’s mention of the film also references that Rick and Morty also made cameo appearances in the film. Morty mentions the television series, South Park, when saying how Jesus beating up people has already been done before. Jesus breaks Rick’s break in the same way Bane broke Batman’s back in the DC film, The Dark Knight Rises. Jan mentions the animated series, The Canterbury Tales, when original idea of the Story Lord until he was told to make it like “Almost Got ‘Im”, an episode of Batman: The Animated Series. The Self-Referential Six are a parody of the Sinister Six, a team of villains from the Spider-Man comics. Flash Back’s outfits bears a resemblance to the DC Comics character, The Flash. Rick compares their adventure to the third season of the television series, Moonlighting. When Joseph Campbell serves soup to Rick and Morty, he says he considered not making any because of his last name, alluding to the real-world soup company. Coincidentally, its founder was also named Joseph Campbell. Joseph Campbell calls Rick and Morty rip-offs of the main characters of the Back to the Future film series.Joseph Campbell’s mention also references how Rick and Morty was heavily inspired by the main characters, Marty McFly and Dr. Emmet Brown as shown in the original short, “The Real Animated Adventures of Doc and Mharti”. Joseph Campbell’s mention also references how Rick and Morty was heavily inspired by the main characters, Marty McFly and Dr. Emmet Brown as shown in the original short, “The Real Animated Adventures of Doc and Mharti”. Marvin the Security Guard’s living room resembles the living room of the Bunkers from the classic sitcom, "All in the Family." The title font of "Marvin the Cowardly Security Guard" is an homage to the title font of "All in the Family." The motivation device Story Lord and Jan bares a resemblance to Cosmic Tuning Tower to the DC Comics series, Crisis on Infinite Earths. The episode’s logline, “This one wrinkled my brain, broh”, references Troy’s catchphrase from Dan Harmon’s other show, Community. 