"Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion" is the seventh episode of the fifth season of Rick and Morty, and the 48th episode of the series overall. It premiered on August 1, 2021. It was written by John Harris and directed by Jacob Hair. The episode is rated TV-14-DLV. Synopsis: The Smiths get a lesson on the meaning of family after Rick cancels a trip to Boob World to acquire the fifth and final GoTron ferret. Plot: Rick, Summer and Morty are on their way to Boob World when Rick notices something on a nearby moon. It turns out to be a blue Gotron Ferret, one of five animatronic Voltron-like vehicles that Rick is obsessed with. While Morty tries to convince him to go to Boob World, Summer offers to help him take the Gotron back to Earth. As Morty watches them walk away, a voiceover not unlike one from a mafia movie sounds where he foreshadows dark times following the Gotron, until Summer cuts him off with her own voiceover, which Morty himself can hear. Rick, Summer and Morty collect the other four Gotrons offscreen and propose to Beth and Jerry that they join them to stop an interdimensional monster. When Summer pushes them to accept, they all suit up and combine their Ferrets into a Gotron, a mechanical warrior that easily defeats the monster. Rick, overjoyed at the success of the fight, starts planning to get other Ricks the Ferrets they need to complete their collections. Morty tries to ground him, reminding him that Rick wanted to be calmed down if he got too obsessed, but Summer cuts him off. Rick invites four other Ricks and their families to a barbecue, where he, the other Ricks, and his Summer discuss business. Their attempts at striking a deal angers a violent Rick named Hothead Rick, but Rick easily replaces him with another Rick after he leaves. The five Smith families combine their Gotrons to form a gigantic Gogotron, which easily dispatches all the monsters that cross over to their dimension. Summer continues to rise in the ranks, while Morty is treated like a common worker and Rick's obsession with the Ferrets leads him to abuse alcohol and other substances. At a nightclub built to hide from enemies, Rick drunkenly announces his plans to build a Gogogotron, disgusting Morty. When he steps outside for some air, he is kidnapped by the original pilots of the Gotron Ferrets, five teenagers animated in an anime style, who the Ricks have been killing alternate versions of to get their Ferrets. They initially try to bribe him with Boob World currency in exchange for insider information about Rick's operation, but when he resists, he is forced to fight off an assassination attempt. When he makes it back to the nightclub, he finds Hothead Rick destroying it with his Ferret, killing a Rick and getting himself killed in the process. Summer has Morty thrown out of the operation. Summer fires her parents from the operation on a whim, while Rick hires Kendra, one of the original Ferret pilots, and her friends. Rick fires Summer. At home, Morty has calmed down from the high of the operation, while Beth and Jerry are readjusting and attempting to do the same. Summer comes in and apologizes profusely for her behavior. She confesses that her attachment to the family working together comes from an experience she had had—her giant baby from "Rickdependence Spray" had been captured by the United States government and held on Mars. The government took Summer to him, hoping her influence as his biological mother could turn him into a weapon, but she bonded with him and helped him escape. As the Smiths try to figure out what to do next, Summer mentions Kendra and Morty realizes the pilots are planning to kill Rick and take their Ferrets back. Inside the Gogogotron, the pilots have trapped Rick inside the head and are about to kill him when the Smiths, riding on the head of the gigantic baby, (who Summer has named "Naruto") arrive. Naruto smashes the Gogogotron apart, killing all the pilots and rescuing Rick. Morty and Summer tell the audience in voiceover that life returned to normal after that, Rick lost his interest in Ferrets, and monsters continued to ravage worlds unstopped resulting in millions of people dying every day. As they continue to monologue, Rick pulls alien worms out of their ears and kills them, which he dubs as parasitic "voiceovarians." In a post-credits scene, a task force of bug monsters prepare to enter an interdimensional portal, so they can tell anyone they meet about the cure for AIDS. One cadet asks if the citizens of the other dimension will understand them, and the captain insists that going through the portal will not "strip us of our clothes and make us screaming monsters." As the cadets head through the portal, one comes out on the other side and tries to communicate the cure, but is shot as his presence is perceived as an attack. Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Jerry Smith Beth Smith Summer Smith Voiceovarians Big Fat Rick Ricardo Montoya Hothead Rick Little Ricky Wrap-it-up Yo-Yo Rick Kendra Naruto Smith Deaths: Hothead Rick Little Ricky Wrap-it-up A lot of giant alien bugs Yo-Yo Rick's Jerry Millions of humans Unnamed man Five original members of the Gotron Driver 2 Voiceovarians Locations: Dimension C-131EarthSmith Residence EarthSmith Residence Smith Residence Episode notes: This episode was accidentally released on some streaming services (the Canadian Amazon Prime as well as Shaw BlueCurve) on July 11, 2021 in place of "Rickdependence Spray". In celebration of Season 5, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates will coincide with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Gotron Summer as an avatar, plus Boob World Morty and Gotron Morty to catch. The crack around the Smith house from "Ricksy Business" and "A Rickle in Time" is still visible. Boob World, which was mentioned in "Rattlestar Ricklactica", is involved in the episode, though not actually visited. Rick, Morty, and Summer are about to go there at the beginning until they decide to pilot Gotrons instead. When the first four alternate Smith families are brought to pilot the Gotrons, the other Mortys and Summers have all been to Boob World. The "Giant Incest Baby" from "Rickdependence Spray" is mentioned throughout the episode, revealed to be still alive as a "Giant Incest Monster", and makes an appearance at the end.Summer reveals that the U.S. government captured him in a secret base on Mars, then brought her to help raise him into the ultimate weapon. But instead, she treated him with love and helped him escape.The baby has matured slightly and has grown red hair. Summer calls him "Naruto" during the anime space battle, which is  now his actual name. Summer reveals that the U.S. government captured him in a secret base on Mars, then brought her to help raise him into the ultimate weapon. But instead, she treated him with love and helped him escape. The baby has matured slightly and has grown red hair. Summer calls him "Naruto" during the anime space battle, which is  now his actual name. Big Fat Rick refers to Rick as "C-137". If you freeze frame of the wrist bracelet on Naruto Smith's right arm when he first appears, it displays the text: "Weapon I / Meta - 80085 / Made in Las Vegas". The last line refers to the fact that Summer's egg cell was fertilized in Las Vegas, while the second line seems to be a reference to five episodes ago in "Mortyplicity" when it was shown that Rick frequently uses "80085" in his passwords as a juvenile joke (as the digital characters spell out "boobs"). "Weapon I" might be a reference to "Weapon X" from Marvel comics, the program that gave Wolverine his adamantium skeleton to turn him into a living weapon, similar to how the government wanted to weaponize Naruto. The episode's title is a reference to the anime series Beast King GoLion and its American version Voltron,  and Neon Genesis Evangelion.The Blue Gotron Ferret Pilot's corpse seen at the beginning is a reference to GoLion's Blue Lion Pilot Takeshi Shirogane who infamously died in episode 6, but was popular enough that the writers wrote a twin brother, Ryo Shirogane. (Sven in Voltron did not die due to editing, so when Ryo appears in Voltron, they made Takeshi and Ryo the same person).Summer having the Red Gotron Ferret, and her role in the episode as Morty's rival for Rick's approval, may be a reference to Evangelion's Asuka Langley Soryu.The episode remains true to the original spirit of the GoLion anime in its portrayal of the enemies as some live creatures (bugs), a detail that was consistently changed in the Voltron adaptation, as the voice-over steadily calls each of them a robot, thus easing the fact that Voltron keeps slashing them with his sword. The same approach is quite literally repeated in Pilot, when Rick tells Morty that it's okay to shoot the bugs, calling them robots, though it's unclear if the writers meant it as a reference.After their first adventure, Beth jokes that she "was a foot", which may be a reference to a joke made in Voltron: Legendary Defender. The Blue Gotron Ferret Pilot's corpse seen at the beginning is a reference to GoLion's Blue Lion Pilot Takeshi Shirogane who infamously died in episode 6, but was popular enough that the writers wrote a twin brother, Ryo Shirogane. (Sven in Voltron did not die due to editing, so when Ryo appears in Voltron, they made Takeshi and Ryo the same person). Summer having the Red Gotron Ferret, and her role in the episode as Morty's rival for Rick's approval, may be a reference to Evangelion's Asuka Langley Soryu. The episode remains true to the original spirit of the GoLion anime in its portrayal of the enemies as some live creatures (bugs), a detail that was consistently changed in the Voltron adaptation, as the voice-over steadily calls each of them a robot, thus easing the fact that Voltron keeps slashing them with his sword. The same approach is quite literally repeated in Pilot, when Rick tells Morty that it's okay to shoot the bugs, calling them robots, though it's unclear if the writers meant it as a reference. After their first adventure, Beth jokes that she "was a foot", which may be a reference to a joke made in Voltron: Legendary Defender. Morty and Summer mention the amusement park Six Flags and beverage Coca-Cola during their argument in the cold open of the episode. Summer names her and Morty's Giant Incest Baby, Naruto, from the anime series of the same name. Rick’s rise in power parodies several gangster films. Notably the the fight between Rick and Kendra's group parodies the climax of Scarface while the voice over is a reference to Goodfellas. The various Ricks in the mafia are based on Don Corleone, Sonny Corleone, and Fredo Corleone from the film, The Godfather, and Tony Montana from the film Scarface.Rick's interior of his ferret resembles Tony Montana's mansion.When the pilots attack him, Rick recreates the "Say hello to my little friend" scene from the film using his Rick gun. Rick's interior of his ferret resembles Tony Montana's mansion. When the pilots attack him, Rick recreates the "Say hello to my little friend" scene from the film using his Rick gun. The arrival of the giant baby parodies 2001: A Space Odyssey, and use the same music. Kendra reads a magazine called GunDumb (a parody of the Gundam franchise with a RX-78 head) while Rick hires her. The original Gotron crew accuse Morty and his family of cultural appropriation. Ironically, the word “anime” is borrowed from the French word for cartoons. Rick combining already combined giant robots to form an even bigger giant robot may be a refernece to Tengen Toppa Gurren Lagann. Rick, Summer, and Morty shouting "Go Team GoTron" in unison may be a reference to the animated series, The Venture Bros. with "Go Team Venture!" The theme of family overcoming their own egos may be a reference to the Fast and Furious franchise. Summer stands on her giant baby's head and controls him by pulling two strands of his hair, which references how Rémy controlled Linguini in the animated film, Ratatouille. The scene with Yo-Yo Rick and a dead Jerry in his bed references Godfather II as Senator Geary was with a dead prostitute. When Summer says to Beth, "You're not a wartime mom.", it directly references the quote from The Godfather, "You're not a wartime consigliere." When Beth gives Morty money and saying, "Now I gotta turn my back on you.", is a direct reference to Goodfellas. Rick frantically demanding to be shown all of the blueprints is likely a reference to the 2003 film The Aviator, in which Howard Hughes (Played by Leonardo Dicaprio), does the same thing. 