 "How Poopy Got His Poop Back" is the first episode of the seventh season of Rick and Morty. It is the 62nd episode of the series overall. It premiered on October 15, 2023. It was written by Nick Rutherford and directed by Lucas Gray. The episode is rated TV-14-DLV. Synopsis: When Mr. Poopybutthole overstays his welcome at the Smith household, the rest of the family get Rick to deal with the problem. However what starts out as a hang out of friends quickly turns into an out of control bar crawl, especially when a special guest joins the group. Plot: The episode starts with a cold open of the Smith family without Rick complaining about Mr. Poopybutthole living in their home as a house guest. After a woman who sold him some drugs came in and said that he said the others will have some cash, Beth angrily orders Morty to get Rick and she comes to confront Mr. Poopybutthole. He (who has been completly wasted) explains to the viewer how his life went downhill ever since Beth shot him, with him losing job, and his wife and son leaving him. before excitedly announcing the start of Season 7. Meanwhile in his lab, Rick is continuing his search for Rick Prime when Morty arrives and tells him about Mr. Poopybutthole. Initially planning to use a Robo ghost to scare him away but after talking with his family, he decides to call his friends to help solve the problem. He calls up Gearhead, Squanchy, Birdperson (who wants a break from taking care of Birddaughter), and his next door neighbor Gene (who accidentally leaves his lawnmower on before leaving with the group) In the post credit scene, a group of policemen attempt to stop Gene's lawnmower which has been causing havoc since it was left on. The sheriff attempts to shoot it down with his gun but gets run over and killed before it runs out of gas immediately after. Realizing that the sheriff died for nothing, the others decide not to tell his family what happened to him. Characters: Rick Sanchez Mr. Poopybutthole Gearhead Birdperson Squanchy Gene Hugh Jackman Gul'Karna Amy Poopy Jr. Morty Smith Summer Smith Beth Smith Jerry Smith Space Beth Birddaughter Locations: Parmesan dimensionEarthSmith Residence EarthSmith Residence Smith Residence Episode notes: This is the first episode to feature Ian Cardoni, Harry Belden, and Jon Allen voicing Rick, Morty, and Mr. Poopybutthole respectively after Justin Roiland's termination from the series amid charges of domestic abuse.This is also the first episode without any involvement from Justin Roiland. This is also the first episode without any involvement from Justin Roiland. In the “Inside the Episode” video for the episode, the episode’s title is named as “Poopy Gets His Poop Back”. In celebration of Season 7, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Gearhead as an avatar, plus Squanchy Morty and Gene Morty to catch. It is revealed Mr. Poopybutthole's name is Wayne, meaning his full name is Wayne Poopybutthole. The scene from "Total Rickall" where Beth shoots Mr. Poopybutthole is mentioned.. Several post-credit scenes are mentioned as a part of Poopybutthole's downhill:Mr. Poobybutthole getting fired in "One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty".Mr. Poopybutthole's wife leaving him in "Rickmurai Jack".Mr. Poopybutthole breaking his legs in "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation". Mr. Poobybutthole getting fired in "One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty". Mr. Poopybutthole's wife leaving him in "Rickmurai Jack". Mr. Poopybutthole breaking his legs in "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation". It is revealed that Squanchy survived the events of "The Wedding Squanchers". Rick’s base of operations in sublevel B10 from “Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation” is seen once again. Rick mentions how he hosted the Oscars in "JuRicksic Mort". Birdperson is now raising Birddaughter after rescuing her from the Galactic Federation as mentioned in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort". Gearhead returns in this episode and is seen put back together after breaking and falling into pieces in "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender". Mr. Poopybutthole directly mentions the season and episode number of "One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty" when about to fight Gul'Karna to remind him about his martial arts skills. The episode's title is a reference to the film How Stella Got Her Groove Back. This episode establishes that Predators from the Predator franchise canonically exist within the universe of Rick and Morty. The episode also makes some specific references to said franchise:The part where Rick and the others dab themselves in mud to camouflage themselves is a reference to how Alan "Dutch" Schaefer used mud to escape the Predator's sight in the first film.Birdperson and Gene getting captured by Gul'Karna's net and bleeding is similar to how Maxwell Stafford in Alien vs Predator was caught and later killed.The scene where Gul'Karna gives a flintlock pistol to Mr. Poopybutthole as a trophy is a nod to how Mike Harrigan in Predator 2 received a flintlock for killing the Predator. The part where Rick and the others dab themselves in mud to camouflage themselves is a reference to how Alan "Dutch" Schaefer used mud to escape the Predator's sight in the first film. Birdperson and Gene getting captured by Gul'Karna's net and bleeding is similar to how Maxwell Stafford in Alien vs Predator was caught and later killed. The scene where Gul'Karna gives a flintlock pistol to Mr. Poopybutthole as a trophy is a nod to how Mike Harrigan in Predator 2 received a flintlock for killing the Predator. Rick tells the others to not call Hugh Jackman "Wolverine", who Jackman portrayed in the X-Men film series. The scene where Gene holds a boombox over his head during Hugh Jackman's song references the balcony scene from the film Say Anything. The ending of the episode where the characters fade away one by one references the ending of the film The Sandlot. Soundtrack: While getting wrecked with shots, the music plays Mighty Sorry by Nick Rutherford and Ryan Elder. 