"Mortynight Run" is the second episode of the second season of Rick and Morty. It is the thirteenth episode of the series overall. It premiered on August 2, 2015. It was written by David Phillips and directed by Dominic Polcino. The episode is rated TV-14-LV. Synopsis: After Rick sells a gun to an alien assassin so he can afford an afternoon at a video arcade, Morty tries to stop the assassin. Plot: While Rick is teaching Morty how to drive the Space Cruiser, he talks about how liberating it will be to have Morty go on errands for him.  Morty, excited to be driving the ship, thinks this sounds cool. Rick then gets a call from an unknown person. He asks the person where they will meet and ends the driving lesson, stating that they have some business to attend to. He then gets startled when Jerry suddenly ask a question about navigation and gets asked by Rick why he is on the ship, to which he says that "We [Rick and Jerry] agreed that a boy's father should be present when he's learning to drive". Rick exclaims that they do not have time to get him back home so they send him at Jerryboree, a "totally unregistered cross-temporal asteroid" daycare designed specifically for Jerrys. After they arrive at the location about the unknown caller, Rick tells him to wait but Morty is insistent to come but he rejects it and defends himself after Morty thinks what he is doing is shady. A gromflomite then knocks on the windows, gives Rick 3000 flerbos and then ask him if he has 'the weapon'. Rick introduces the person to Morty, and gives hive and antimatter gun. The gromflomite then introduces himself as Krombopulos Michael, alien assasin. After Michael left, Morty then questions if he sends weapons to killers for money. Rick reveals that sold the gun to afford an afternoon at a video arcade Blips and Chitz, which features a game called "Roy: A Life Well Lived". Morty, upset by Rick's immoral decision, attempts to stop Krombopulous Michael from killing his target. After accidentally killing Krombopulous Michael with his poor spaceship piloting, Morty is introduced to the assassin's target, who assumes the name "Fart". Morty insists on freeing Fart and helping him get back to the wormhole he came through to return him to his race. Government forces give chase, leading to a shoot out with lots of civilian casualties, and Rick rages that none of these people would have died if Morty hadn't interfered with Krombopulous Michael. After returning Fart to the wormhole to his home planet, Fart reveals his plan to return with his race and "cure" all carbon based life forms from the universe. Morty is then forced to make a moral decision, and kills his friend using the antimatter gun, meaning that all the deaths and destruction that resulted from his decision to save Fart were for nothing. Meanwhile, Jerry has spent his time socializing with many other Jerrys at Jerryboree, before being picked up atop  the end of the day. The three are then called over by another Rick and Morty asking if they have their Jerry. Morty reveals he has lost his fathers number and only has a Blips and Chitz ticket. The two Ricks swap Jerrys without knowing which Jerry is which. The episode ends with a promotional ad for "Blips & Chitz". Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Jerry Smith (C-131) Rick Sanchez (5126) Jerry Smith (5126) Beth Smith (daycare costume) Gearhead Fart Krombopulos Michael Roy Gear People Alien Police Alien Creatures from the season 2 promo Gromflomites Paul Fleishman Mr. Meeseeks (Non-Speaking Cameo) Jessica (Non-Speaking Cameo; Imagination Sequence) Gwendolyn (Cameo; Imagination Sequence) Gromflomite guard 1 Gromflomite guard 2 Gromflomite guard 3 Gromflomite guard 4 Deaths: Krombopulos Michael At least  10 unnamed Gromflomites Gromflomite guard 1 Gromflomite guard 2 Gromflomite guard 3 Gromflomite guard 4 Many unnamed Gear People 1 unnamed Garblovian Fart Three small slug creatures Humans at wedding Ailen in arcade Roy (in video game) Songs: Goodbye Moonmen Trivia: Summer does not appear in this episode, although the Jerry daycare has a slide shaped like her.Although Beth doesn't appear in person, she is represented by a woman in costume at the Jerry daycare. Although Beth doesn't appear in person, she is represented by a woman in costume at the Jerry daycare. This is the first episode to be named after Morty. A Mr. Meeseeks can be seen in the background at the Blips & Chitz arcade, helping an alien win a video game, where it can be seen disappearing when the alien wins. In the Jerry daycare, the song "Human Music" from the episode "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!" can be heard in the background. When Rick fills out the form for the Jerry daycare, many details are revealed to the audience, such as the fact that Rick didn't seem to remember his Jerry's dimension (or maybe because he lives in another universe he can't be 100% sure that the Jerry of the dimension where he lives now is the original Jerry. Or answering N/A simply means that Jerry is also from the dimension Rick wrote for Dimension), and that the date of the episode was January 12, 2015 (or it's remotely possible Rick isn't using the United States standard date format and it's December 1, 2015). When Morty asks Fart what his name is, Fart says he communicates through "Jessica's Feet", then corrects himself by saying telepathy. Rick then comments that the fart can read minds, meaning Morty was thinking about Jessica's feet at the time. Around 10:23 minutes into the episode, at Gearhead’s place, you can clearly see a porn poster in the background. While Jerry is in the room of Jerrys who never got picked up, you can see a ‘Hungry for Apples?’ vending machine referencing the advertising campaign he made in the "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!" episode. The wormhole from which Fart came is clearly representative of a vagina, suggesting he is actually some kind of cosmic trans-dimensional queef. A cardboard version of Morty can be seen after all the Jerrys race over to the TV to watch Midnight Run with the costume version of Beth just before the next scene plays. The Blu-Ray release features special guest commentary from Erik Wolpaw, Jay Pinkerton, and Gabe Newell. The title of this episode is a pun on Midnight Run, the movie that Jerry watches with the costumed Beth character at the daycare. The 'visions' caused by Fart are largely inspired and an homage to the works of Vince Collins (expecially Malice in Wonderland), an American filmmaker and animator active in the psychedelic movement. https://youtu.be/R2BAeh8wZLI https://youtu.be/8OHnC24Qx8kAlong with this, the visual of Morty's skin peeling off in one of the visions is a direct reference to a similar scene from the music video for "The Music Scene" by Blockhead, animated by Anthony Francisco Schepperd. Along with this, the visual of Morty's skin peeling off in one of the visions is a direct reference to a similar scene from the music video for "The Music Scene" by Blockhead, animated by Anthony Francisco Schepperd. Blips & Chitz is a reference to the national arcade chain Dave and Buster's. Fart's manner of speaking, as well as his psychedelic, space-themed song, is a parody of rock legend David Bowie. Jemaine Clement, who voices Fart, parodied Bowie in a similar fashion in the show Flight of the Conchords. Jemaine Clement, the voice of Fart, sings "Goodbye Moonmen" in the middle of the episode in a seemingly irrelevant tangent, similar to how he and Bret Mckenzie sing as the titular duo in Flight of the Conchords. The music for the song is written by Ryan Elder and lyrics by David Phillips & Dan Harmon The sound effect that plays when Jerry is forwarding emails to his other-selves is remotely similar to the sound effect of when a player successfully combines an item in the video game series Monster Hunter. Krombopulos Michael may be a parody of The Assassin from the video game, Mass Effect 2. The animation in the "Goodbye Moonmen" segment is similar to scenes in the film, The Wall. In the Goodbye Moonmen segment, the mouth logo of the band, The Rolling Stones, appears. An episode of Ball Fondlers from the episode "Rixty Minutes" can be seen on a TV, while another shows an episode of Gazorpazorpfield from the same episode. Look closely at the glowing rocks Rick puts in his trunk: they have several pink threads on them. The rocks are seen again at the beginning "Total Rickall", as well as the final form of these parasitic threads. The Human Music from "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!" can be heard playing quietly in the background when Rick, Morty, and Jerry enter the Jerryboree. 