 "Mort: Ragnarick" is the ninth episode of the seventh season of Rick and Morty. It is the 70th episode of the series overall. It premiered on December 10, 2023. It was written by Jeremy Gilfor and Scott Marder and directed by Kyounghee Lim. This episode is rated TV-14-DLSV. Synopsis: In an attempt to answer the age old question if there is an afterlife, Rick has Bigfoot kill him in order to enter Valhalla for a robbery. Things get pretty hectic when the pope gets involved in the situation. Plot: In the Post-Credit Scene, Rick is seen taking part in an illegal Pokemon battle using the Pope to battle another trainer when the FBI arrives and shuts the place down while Rick escapes via portal. After freeing him, the Pope asks who's running the Vatican to which the FBI shows a video of the Rick Clone as the new pope much to his horror. Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Bigfoot The Pope Valhalla Vikings Rick's clone/Pope Rick Jerry Smith Summer Smith (clone body) Nana Pop-Pop Frankenstein Dracula Gillman The Mummy The Wolfman Trainer Spider-Man (mentioned) Thor (mentioned) Deaths: Jerry (8 times, temporarily) Rick (8 times, cloned back) Morty (8 times, cloned back) Bigfoot (7 times, cloned back) Devil worshippers Vatican guards Frankenstein's Monster Count Dracula Gill-man The Mummy The Wolfman Locations: Parmesan dimensionEarthNorwayVatican PalaceSmith ResidenceThe GarageHeavenValhallaTransdimensional Energy Relay EarthNorwayVatican PalaceSmith ResidenceThe Garage Norway Vatican Palace Smith ResidenceThe Garage The Garage Heaven ValhallaTransdimensional Energy Relay Transdimensional Energy Relay  Episode notes: Rick is shown to have several variations of the Portal Gun. In celebration of Season 7, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Bigfoot as an avatar, plus Pocket Morty and Valhalla Morty to catch. This is the lowest viewed episode of the series so far, with 0.29 million viewers. Bigfoot kills Rick, meaning Fleeflak's prediction came true in "Air Force Wong". Operation Phoenix once again makes a return. While in "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat", Rick mentions that he axed his version of the protocol, it has seemingly been restarted and now seems to include backups of others besides Rick and Morty. During the montage where Rick, Morty, and Bigfoot are killed by the Pope, one instance has Rick wearing his armor suit from "Promortyus" and Bigfoot wearing an armor suit identical to the suits Rick, Morty, and The President wore in "Rick & Morty's Thanksploitation Spectacular". The armor Morty is identical to the power suit he wore in "Look Who's Purging Now" except its color palette has been changed from gray to amber. Morty's facial expression model when he's squeezed to death by Bigfoot is the exact same one he makes in the moment of brief depressurization of Rick's ship in "Rattlestar Ricklactica". The episode's title is a reference to the film Thor: Ragnarok. Rick has a Poké Ball from the Pokémon franchise that he uses to contain Bigfoot and the Pope as if they were Pokémon. He is seen using the Pope in battle like a Pokémon in the post credits scene.The Pokémon Arena where Rick battles in the post credit scene resembles the Golden Daggers Club arena from Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings, and could also be a reference to the Pokémon battle arena from the film Pokémon Detective Pikachu. The Pokémon Arena where Rick battles in the post credit scene resembles the Golden Daggers Club arena from Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings, and could also be a reference to the Pokémon battle arena from the film Pokémon Detective Pikachu. Rick pretending to be Odin and referring to himself as Spider-Man's uncle references the Marvel Comics What If? story, "What If Odin were Peter Parker's Uncle?". When Rick upgrades a new voice into Bigfoot's Predator wrist gauntlet, Bigfoot starts to narrate the movie trailer for In Time. During the montage where Rick, Morty, and Bigfoot are killed by the Pope, one instance has them wearing armor made of pillows, referencing "Pillows and Blankets", a episode from Dan Harmon's other series, Community. The monsters that assist Rick, Morty, and Bigfoot reference the same lineup of monsters (Count Dracula, Frankenstein's Monster, The Wolf Man, The Gill-Man, and The Mummy) from the film The Monster Squad. The scene where Rick and Morty get emotional over returning Bigfoot to the woods is a reference to Harry and the Hendersons. 