 "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation" is the tenth and final episode of the sixth season of Rick and Morty, and the 61st episode of the series overall. It premiered on December 11, 2022. It was written by Scott Marder and directed by Kyounghee Lim. The episode is rated TV-14-LV. Synopsis: What starts as a merry Christmas in the Smith household takes an ugly turn when Morty uncovers a betrayal thanks to a gift from a galaxy far, far away. Plot: On Christmas Day, Rick gives the family gifts from the multiverse, including a lightsaber for Morty. Excited to finally have one, Morty practices in the garage with Rick throwing fruit as targets, but he accidentally loses his grip, and it falls onto the ground in perfect verticality. The two go down to the underground levels of the house to grab it, but they soon end up in a secret lab where another Rick, looking dishevelled and unkempt, is found. Morty realizes that the Rick, who has been nice to him and the family for the last couple of months, was a robot like he originally thought, and he is furious that Rick would do this. However, Rick brushes it off as he decided to take himself out of the family after the Knights of the Sun episode and built the robot copy to take his place so he can hunt for Rick Prime. Still, Morty feels betrayed by this and decides to leave the real Rick alone in his lab while taking his anger on the robotic copy. Morty leaves RickBot to watch an extended version of Miracle on 34th Street with the rest of the family, telling the latter to do his job he was programmed to do. Suddenly, the President arrives to berate Morty for dropping his lightsaber into the ground as it is heading towards the planet's core. Because the lightsaber is powered by Kyber Crystals, it will destroy the Earth. Feeling upset that he caused this, along with the President unloading all his dislike of Star Wars, Morty tearfully apologizes and calls this the worst Christmas ever. This causes the President to calm down and promise to help Morty.  Meanwhile, the family watches Miracle on 34th Street, which includes a long scene where a guy lists off every street he can see. After deciding to stop when Jerry gets bored, they decide to play a game. As they do these activities, the family admires how nice RickBot is even though they are unaware that is who he is. However, the latter feels guilty that he is deceiving them. Morty takes the President and the White House science team down to the very bottom of the house's underground levels, which gets Rick's notice. Morty, the president and Rick argue until a one of the presidents scientists touches one of Rick's devices and get disintegrated into green ash. Deciding to handle this mess himself, Rick drops an AI-powered lightsaber to destroy Morty's, but it goes rogue after Rick pesters it enough, and it attacks Italy. The science team makes a drill ship to go down to the core and get the lightsaber, and Rick, after the failure of the AI lightsaber, modifies it so it goes faster than the lightsaber. However, Morty makes it clear that he does not want Rick around and scolds Rick for abandoning him for his hunt for Rick Prime. Rick throws it back at Morty as he felt stabbed in the back when the latter called him boring in the Knights episode and goes back to his lab. Morty and the President go into the drill ship to stop the lightsaber from hitting the core. Thankfully, Morty manages to grab it and the duo head up to the surface to celebrate. However, the President takes the lightsaber away from Morty, declaring that he owns Star Wars compared to the corporates who ruined it in his opinion and leaves with his Science Team. Upset that things have gone wrong for him again, Morty storms back into the house and tells his family the truth about RickBot. Angry that they were lied to, Summer and the Beths destroy RickBot, who welcomes the embrace of death. Meanwhile, the President plays with the lightsaber in the Oval Office, only to lose his grip and drop it perfectly vertical into the ground. The President publicly blames Morty for this and unknowingly reveals that he already jettisoned the White House into space for his safety. Because the government confiscated the drill ship and the fact that the real Rick has abandoned the family, the Smiths reactivate RickBot to help them. In his lab, the real Rick dismantles one of Rick Prime's killbot drones to see where the latter is hiding, only for the monitor to detect multiple locations. RickBot successfully saves the Earth by grabbing the lightsaber, and he and Morty storm the White House in space. Morty follows the President into a Star Wars-themed room where the latter sends out droids with lightsabers to fight Morty while ranting about how Disney ruined the franchise. Morty destroys the droids and confronts the President with a Gatling gun that shoots lightsabers, shooting at the latter. However, RickBot takes the attack and gets injured, only for the lightsabers to slide off him and fall to the ground perfectly vertical. The floor is destroyed, and the group is nearly sucked into the vacuum of space until Rick saves them with a portal. With RickBot powering down for good, Morty apologizes for pushing him away. Before fading away, RickBot reveals that Rick built him to be around the family and show that he does care for them. After the President leaves, Rick decides to include Morty in his hunt for Rick Prime, declaring that this will be their arc for the following season. In the stinger, a jacked-up Mr. Poopybutthole finishes watching the episode and tells the audience that he is trying to rebound from his divorce by exercising a lot. But when he breaks his legs due to trying to squat more than he could handle, Mr. Poopybutthole begs his trainer to call Amy as he needs her. Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Summer Smith Jerry Smith Beth Smith Space Beth RickBot The President Mr. Poopybutthole Carl Rick Prime (pictured, mentioned) Diane Sanchez (mentioned) Gene (mentioned) Knights of the Sun (mentioned) Roy (mentioned) Mrs. Poopybutthole (mentioned) Baby Poopybutthole (mentioned) Deaths: Scientist People in Italy Lightsaber-handed robots Lightsaber eyeball robot RickBot Locations: Episode notes: In celebration of Season 6, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came The President as an avatar, plus Laser Sword Morty and Droid Morty to catch. This is the sixth episode (after "Auto Erotic Assimilation", "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate", "The Rickshank Rickdemption", "The Ricklantis Mixup", and "Never Ricking Morty") that has the intro shortened to the title only. This is the seventh episode not to feature a cold open, the first six being "Lawnmower Dog", "Anatomy Park", "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!", "Meeseeks and Destroy", "Rick Potion #9", and "Never Ricking Morty". When exiting the elevator for subbasement 15 (the "cool sushi spot") the Japanese host greets them with いらっしゃいませ (irasshaimase) which is the typical polite greeting meaning "Welcome to the store". Rick responds with どうも (doumo which the adult swim subtitles mispell as domo)  which is a generic polite word being correctly used. This is the final episode with Justin Roiland voicing Rick, Morty, and Mr. Poopybutthole as he was fired from the series in January 24, 2023 amid charges of domestic abuse. It is revealed that Rick replaced himself with a robotic version of himself during the events of “A Rick in King Mortur's Mort”. The holograms and picture of Rick Prime shown come straight from the episodes "The Rickshank Rickdemption" and "Solaricks". Rick's chamber of beings trapped in Globaflyn tanks from "The Old Man and the Seat" returns. Rick mentions not to touch something or they will die, referencing Rick saying the same in “The Rickchurian Mortydate”. Rick breaks the fourth wall and rants to Morty like how he did in “Pilot” and “The Rickshank Rickdemption”. Mr. Poopybutthole mentions Rick Prime, therapy, and Roy when talking about the season, referencing the events of “Solaricks”, “Analyze Piss” and “Rick: A Mort Well Lived”. Mr. Poopybutthole mentions how he is trying to rebound from his divorce, referencing the post-credits scene of "Rickmurai Jack". The episode's title is a reference to the film National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation. The episode features several Star Wars references, including realistic Lightsabers and the robots the President commands that are inspired by Droids. President Curtis's rejection of the Disney-produced Star Wars sequel trilogy, and Morty's calling out of his pathetic nostalgia-driven anger, is a manifestation of popular discourse over the Star Wars franchise since it was bought out by Disney in the early 2010s.Additionally, during the scene where he betrays Morty, Curtis bears striking resemblance to Moff Gideon. Additionally, during the scene where he betrays Morty, Curtis bears striking resemblance to Moff Gideon. Morty cutting up fruit with his lightsaber references the video game, Fruit Ninja. Rickbot gives Jerry an alternate two hour version of the film, Miracle on 34th Street. After the Vertisaber starts killing people in Italy, The President comments “That’s not amore”, referencing Dean Martin’s song, "That’s Amore". After stealing the lightsaber from Morty, The President says “America, transform and roll out!” referencing the Transformers franchise. The President compared Rick’s dishelved look to Phil Spector and Randy Quaid. Rick mentions actor David Arquette when commenting on how Morty called Rick “boring”. Goofs: During the scene where the Vertisaber kills people in Italy, the victims produce blood. This is inaccurate. In Star Wars, the heat of a Lightsaber's blade is enough to cauterize the wounds caused, resulting in no blood being spilled. The same thing goes for a Light-Blaster's Bolts. 