 "Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie" is the eighth episode of the seventh season of Rick and Morty. It is the 69th episode of the series overall. It premiered on December 3, 2023. It was written by Rob Schrab and directed by Lucas Gray. This episode is rated TV-MA-LSV.  Synopsis: Morty's math class takes a surprising new turn when he and his math teacher Mr. Goldenfold go on an adventure with Goldenfold's old student, Water-T to battle the Numbericons. Plot: The episode starts the exact same way as the post credits scene in "Get Schwifty", with Ice-T returning to Alphebetrium and Magnesium-J, Hydrogen-F and Magma-Q ending his exile and turning from Ice-T into Water-T. Lithium-P then informs them that Numbericons are attacking their planet, and a giant calcuator spaceship is seen shooting lasers at the inhabitants of Alphabetrium. A rock then falls on Magma-Q, who before dying, gives Water-T a "prophecy or some shit." Water-T summons two guns, and while Magnesium-J tries to talk Water-T out of it by saying there are too many Numbericons, Water-T responds by saying he better "crunch the numbers." A title card shows displaying "Water-T and the Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie." He is then seen killing several Numbericons, and poses enough of a threat to them to force them to retreat. After setting up a bracket shield that a Numbericon ship crashes into, he is picked up in the Glyph Jumper by Lithium-P. Water-T shows him the prophecy, and Lithium-P explains that it is the Eye of Harmony, which holds a secret power but can only be translated by mathematicians. Water-T declares that there are going to Earth, for he knows a mathematician there. Sometime later back at Harry Herpson High School, Morty is gleefully doing his math homework having gained a new respect for math and gives it to Mr. Goldenfold. Magma-T who's also in the class gives Mr. Goldenfold his long overdue homework assignment. Despite giving a bad grade, Goldenfold is more than happy to finally receive it. In the Post Credit Scene, rapper Ice Cube, who's revealed to be an alien called a Geomitron meets with Magma-T and Sinistar-7 to help save his home planet from an unknown force. The duo agree to help Ice Cube leading to a new movie called "Magma-T & Ice Cube in: Challenge of the Geomitrons." Characters: Morty Smith Ice-T/Water-T/Magma-T Mr. Goldenfold Lithium-P Sulfur-P Sinistar-7 Magma-Q Oxygen-S/8/Infinity Numbericons Magnesium-J Hydrogen-F Emperor Dread Nought Decimal Point Ice Cube The President Marvin D Jessica (cameo) Grace Smith (cameo) Principal Vagina (cameo) Deaths: Magma-Q Oxygen-S/8/Infinity Emperor Dread Nought Many Numbericons Many Alphabetrians Locations: Parmesan dimensionAlphabetriumEarthHarry Herpson High SchoolPlanet E-10Numbericonia (Mentioned by Oxygen-S.) Alphabetrium EarthHarry Herpson High School Harry Herpson High School Planet E-10 Numbericonia (Mentioned by Oxygen-S.) Episode notes: This episode premiered a day after the 10th anniversary of the series. This is the first episode of the series to not feature Rick in any way, or even mention him.Likewise, this is the first episode to focus on Mr. Goldenfold. Likewise, this is the first episode to focus on Mr. Goldenfold. This is the fifth episode of Rick and Morty to be rated TV-MA  from the FCC, the first four being "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate", "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender", "Bethic Twinstinct", and "Unmortricken". In this episode, when a rock falls on Magma-Q, he gives Water-T the "I" of Harmony. However, in the same scene in "Get Schwifty", he does not do this, instead claiming he never should have turned his son into ice.It is possible that this is due to it being a different dimension, with the story happening with slight differences. It is possible that this is due to it being a different dimension, with the story happening with slight differences. Ice-T's father was named "Helium-Q" in The Art of Rick and Morty, but this episode decanonizes that by naming him Magma-Q. His voice actor is also changed to the actual Ice-T. This is the fourth episode that does not include the classic intro. The first three were "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate", "The Ricklantis Mixup" and "Rickmurai Jack". In celebration of Season 7, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Mr. Goldenfold as an avatar, plus Lithium P Morty and Water T Morty to catch. This episode is currently the lowest rated Rick and Morty episode on IMDb with a score of 4.5. When Water-T takes on Ice-T's form, a second "I of Harmony" appears on his neck. This episode is the follow-up to the post-credits scene of the Season 2 episode "Get Schwifty" which depicted the trailer for a movie called Water-T and the Rise of the Numbericons.It's revealed that Ice-T took several seasons to return to Alphabetrium.Magma-Q and Magnesium-J’s voices are redubbed by Ice-T and an unknown voice actor respectively instead of Justin Roiland. It's revealed that Ice-T took several seasons to return to Alphabetrium. Magma-Q and Magnesium-J’s voices are redubbed by Ice-T and an unknown voice actor respectively instead of Justin Roiland. Morty is no longer a Kuato from the previous episode "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer". The episode's title is a reference to the general naming scheme of Rise of the ..., which occurs in many media such as Transformers: Rise of the Beasts, Rise of the Guardians, and Rise of the Planet of Apes to name a few. There are several references to Star Wars in this episode.The primitive symbols take on the role of Ewoks, with them providing them shelter in the treetops, and Mr. Goldenfold even directly compares them.Magma-Q returns just like a Force ghost, which Water-T points out.Emperor Dread Nought is a reference to Emperor Palpatine.The Decimal Point is a reference to Salacious Crumb. The primitive symbols take on the role of Ewoks, with them providing them shelter in the treetops, and Mr. Goldenfold even directly compares them. Magma-Q returns just like a Force ghost, which Water-T points out. Emperor Dread Nought is a reference to Emperor Palpatine. The Decimal Point is a reference to Salacious Crumb. The scene in the recording booth where the engineer, Marvin D calls Chuck D, is a reference to the movie Back to the Future where Marvin Berry calls Chuck Berry to demonstrate "that sound you were looking for", the song Johnny B Goode. Morty calls the symbols "primitive googas" which is a reference to Justin Roiland and Dan Harmon's short Googas. The "I of Harmony" seems to be a pun on the Eye of Harmony, the power source of the Time Lords in Doctor Who. Sinistar-7 is a parody of the Marvel Comics character, Gamora. 