"The Rickshank Rickdemption" is the first episode of the third season of Rick and Morty. It is the 22nd episode of the series overall. It premiered on April 1, 2017. It was written by Mike McMahan and directed by Juan Meza-León. The episode is rated TV-14-DLV. Synopsis: Summer and Morty travel interdimensionally to locate Rick and find a bunch of Ricks. Rick craves a very specific chicken nugget dipping sauce. Plot: The episode starts out with Rick and his family sitting in a booth at an old fashioned American diner, Shoney's, talking about Rick's escape from space prison. Rick smells a rat and orders Jerry to fold himself over 12 times. "Jerry" only manages to contort himself into six folds, revealing that this is, in fact, a simulation based on Rick's memories. A Galactic Federation agent named Cornvelious Daniel sitting in the next booth introduces himself and reveals that he has been sent to gather information from Rick's mind via a brain-link. The agent makes it clear that Rick's brain will be liquefied at the end of the session, so he might as well revisit his memories one last time. Meanwhile, Morty and his family are back on Earth, which is now being run by the Galactic Federation. Jerry now works an unspecified occupation, while Beth has lost her own job due to the Federation's advanced medical knowledge. Unhappy with their current way of life, Summer decides to save Rick and digs up the portal gun buried by Rick in the backyard next to his own alternate-dimension corpse. Morty tries to dissuade Summer from doing so, but when the family's robot butler Conroy turns hostile and attempts to confiscate the portal gun, Morty transports them all to his "Cronenberg World" family, which he and Rick C-137 abandoned previously. After they arrive, Conroy is destroyed by Jerry Smith and Summer Smith from the abandoned Prime Dimension. Morty and Summer join them, along with Beth Smith, in a feast of roasted Cronenberg. The cataclysm endured by this dimension affords Morty the proof to Summer that Rick does not care about anyone, especially his family. At this point, Jerry smashes the portal gun, preventing our Summer and Morty from leaving. Agents from the Council of Ricks show up to investigate the compromised portal gun, immobilizing Jerry, Beth, and the other Summer with a freeze ray. As Summer informs the agents that Rick C-137 has been captured, the agents dispatch a Rick Council Seal Team to assassinate Rick C-137, while Summer and Morty are captured. At the subsequent kangaroo court aboard the Citadel of Ricks, our Summer and Morty speak out against the council in Rick C-137's defense, and Morty reveals that he never gave up on Rick and was just trying to protect his sister from the dangers of life with Rick involved. Back in the brain-link simulation, Rick stops by a McDonalds drive-thru, and orders Chicken McNuggets with Szechuan sauce. Rick then shows the agent a memory of how he lost his wife and Beth to an explosion in his first dimension, driving him to invent his first portal gun. The agent collects what he believes to be the genuine portal gun formula and uploads it to the brain-link server. The agent then attempts to leave the brain-link, but his communication device fails. Rick reveals that the "code" given was actually a virus giving him control of the entire system and that the "memory" they visited was a "fabricated" origin story. Rick then transfers his consciousness out of the brain-link into the physical body of the agent. At this point, the Rick Council Seal Team shows up and kills all of the aliens and Rick D-99, a SEAL Team Member shoots Rick C-137’s old body in the head, destroying it. Rick manages to transfer his consciousness from his agent body to Rick D-99. Quickly afterward, another SEAL Team Rick shoots the agent body, killing Rick D-99. Rick C-137 (in his new body) kills the rest of the agents and interrogates a surviving Rick, which the surviving Rick tells him that Morty and Summer are on the Citadel. Rick thanks the last surviving Rick and shoots him in the head.  Rick rappels up a rope and leaves the Galactic Federation Prison and makes his way to the teleportation control room of the Citadel of Ricks by switching his consciousness into a high ranking Rick. He teleports the entire Citadel back into the middle of the federation prison, resulting in a heated battle between the two sides. Rick C-137 infiltrates the Council chamber and kills most of the Council of Ricks before ending up in a standoff with the final member, attempting to use Summer as a hostage. With a clever bit of trickery, Rick and Morty combine efforts to save Summer and escape back to Earth, but not before Rick returns to the prison's control room and changes the Galactic Federation's currency, Blemflarcks, so that 1 blemflarck is worth 0 blemflarcks. With the economy in shambles, the Federation follows suit, sending the whole galaxy into chaos and resulting in many aliens leaving Earth. By the time Rick, Morty and Summer return home, Jerry is once again unemployed while Beth is simply relieved that her family is home safe and sound. Unhappy with his father-in-law's return, Jerry demands that Beth chooses between himself and Rick, leading to the two deciding on divorce. Once Beth and Summer leave the garage, Rick reveals to Morty that he had himself captured on purpose in order to take revenge on both the Galactic Federation and Jerry for crossing him. By eliminating Jerry, Rick now takes on the role as the undisputed patriarch of the family, and Morty will be forced to continue on adventures with him as both Beth and Summer view Rick as a hero. Rick explains that all he wants out of all his plans is to get Szechuan Chicken McNugget Sauce, which was discontinued by McDonalds years ago. Understandably, Morty is visibly horrified by the revelation. The garage door closes as Rick continues to rant about the Szechuan Sauce. In the post-credits scene, Birdperson's corpse is reanimated with cybernetic parts and renamed "Phoenixperson" which Tammy criticizes for not being creative enough. He and Tammy fly off into the distance, presumably to take revenge on Rick. Cast and characters: Justin Roiland as Rick Sanchez / Morty Smith Various Ricks: Commander in Chief Rick / Radar Rick / Riq IV / Rick Prime (Council of Ricks) / Quantum Rick / Maximums Rickimus / Zeta Alpha Rick / Ricktiminus Sancheziminius / SEAL Team Ricks / Rick Sanchez (Dimension D-99) / Salesman Rick / Cyclops Rick / Fish Rick / Black Rick / Lizard Rick / Morty RickVarious Mortys: "Lawyer" Morty / Hammerhead Morty / Fish Morty / Dipper and Mabel Mortys Various Ricks: Commander in Chief Rick / Radar Rick / Riq IV / Rick Prime (Council of Ricks) / Quantum Rick / Maximums Rickimus / Zeta Alpha Rick / Ricktiminus Sancheziminius / SEAL Team Ricks / Rick Sanchez (Dimension D-99) / Salesman Rick / Cyclops Rick / Fish Rick / Black Rick / Lizard Rick / Morty Rick Various Mortys: "Lawyer" Morty / Hammerhead Morty / Fish Morty / Dipper and Mabel Mortys Chris Parnell as Jerry Smith / Jerry Smith Prime Spencer Grammer as Summer Smith / Summer Smith Prime Sarah Chalke as Beth Smith / Beth Smith Prime Guest-Starring Nathan Fillion as Cornvelious Daniel Starring Dan Harmon as Phoenixperson / McDonalds Employee Brandon Johnson as Mr. Goldenfold / Federation Personnel Tom Kenny as Conroy / Federation Admiral Maurice Lamarche as Galactic Federation President / Gromflomite Engineer Nolan North as Gromflomite Commander / Gromflomite Soldier Cassie Steele as Tammy Gueterman Kari Wahlgren as Diane Sanchez Pictured: Doofus Rick Deaths: 1 Conroy Rick C-137's old body Cornvelious Daniel All members of SEAL Team Ricks including Rick Sanchez (D-99) Many unnamed Galactic Federation Agents Many Ricks Many Mortys Many unnamed Aliens Many unnamed People Many unnamed Gromflomites Commander in Chief Rick Quantum Rick's original mind and personality Maximums Rickimus Zeta Alpha Rick Rick Prime (Council of Ricks) Ricktiminus Sancheziminius Riq IV Galactic Federation President Locations: Shoney's Smith Residence Citadel of Ricks Buttworld Galactic Federation Prison Dimension C-137 (flashback) Episode notes: The episode was uploaded as a continuous looping stream on Adult Swim as part of an April Fools publicity stunt. The episode ending where Rick explains his motives for being the undisputed patriarch of the family towards Morty plays on the "Pilot" ending, where Rick is seen to be growing crazy, drooling in saliva as he explains his motives, Morty is shown to be horrified and lying on the ground, and the rapid light bulb flashing return. Throughout the episode, Rick says he needs to "take a dump/shit" 3 times, which comes inline with the statement Rick says beforehand: "Comedy comes in threes". This is the first of two episodes where Summer could be seen with her hair down. Morty and Summer's charges include "operating an unregistered portal gun, radicalizing a Summer" and "conspiring with a traitorous Rick". The "fly code" for Rick's garage transformation is 'right left right right right'. In his ending crazed rant, Rick makes the statement that it will take him "9 more seasons" until he gets to his McNugget Sauce, once again breaking the fourth wall.This is also similar to the "6 seasons and a movie" statement from Community, another show created by Dan Harmon. This is also similar to the "6 seasons and a movie" statement from Community, another show created by Dan Harmon. As of the end of the episode, Rick Sanchez (C-137) resides in the body of Quantum Rick of the former Council of Ricks. A major hint that shows that Rick Sanchez (C-137) has taken over a body is the saliva on the bottom of his mouth that is absent on all the other Ricks. If one is able to spot that, they could tell that Quantum Rick's body was taken over before it is revealed by Rick (C-137) himself. Morty mentions that he and Summer once awkwardly discovered a mannequin leg that belonged to Jerry. This is a reference to an actual mannequin leg that is owned by co-creator Dan Harmon. The name of Seal Team Rick is a play on the name of the assault team Seal Team Six. The many parallels, including both targets being seen as radical "terrorists", both assault team operating under government command, and both teams were told to assassinate/kill the target, among many other things. They were the ones tasked by the US Government with the assassination of Osama Bin Laden. McDonalds took the Szechuan Sauce joke with good humor and even sent Justin Roiland a bottle of the sauce in a customized package direct from Dimension C-1998M, a dimension where it's always 1998.Moreover, as the show fans demanded McDonald's to return the sauce to the menu, it was first brought back as a one-day promotion, and later again for several months. Existing packages from 1998 could be bought online, some priced as high as several thousand dollars. Moreover, as the show fans demanded McDonald's to return the sauce to the menu, it was first brought back as a one-day promotion, and later again for several months. Existing packages from 1998 could be bought online, some priced as high as several thousand dollars. The Blu-Ray release features special guest commentary from Courtney Love & Marilyn Manson. Throughout the episode, Earth is inhabited by new aliens, which continues from the events that occur during the end of "The Wedding Squanchers". Summer realizes they can escape Earth when she is reminded that her original Rick, from Season 1's "Rick Potion No. 9", is buried in the back yard, along with his portal gun. This episode returns to the "Cronenberged-Earth" last seen in "Rick Potion No. 9", Rick and Morty's original universe, which they abandoned after wrecking it. Morty re-encounters his original family, even pointing out that the Summer in that universe is his actual sister.Morty apparently knows the portal gun coordinates for Cronenberged-Earth, yet in all this time he made no attempt to save his original family from it. Unless, of course, it was just a coincidence, since Morty didn't have much reason to pick this world for saving himself and Summer from Conroy, and in the same scene we see him randomly shoot another portal leading to a realm of giant farting butts. Morty apparently knows the portal gun coordinates for Cronenberged-Earth, yet in all this time he made no attempt to save his original family from it. Unless, of course, it was just a coincidence, since Morty didn't have much reason to pick this world for saving himself and Summer from Conroy, and in the same scene we see him randomly shoot another portal leading to a realm of giant farting butts. The Council of Ricks returns, last seen in the Season 1 episode "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind". In the cold open to the episode, Rick proves he is in a computer simulation by asking a character to do something impossible - in this case, for Jerry to fold himself 12 times. Rick did something similar in "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!", when he asked simulation characters to do increasingly complex things in order to freeze up the system. A picture of Doofus Rick from "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind", was seen in the cabinet, in the shot, where Morty chased Summer, telling her about the "goulish overkill". The air date, April 1st, 2017, is almost exactly "a year and a half" after "The Wedding Squanchers" (October 4, 2015), as stated by Mr. Poopybutthole at the end of the episode. Rick going on a rant near the end of the episode about Szechuan sauce while Morty is lying on the garage floor is quite similar to how, in "Pilot", Rick goes on a rant near the end of the episode about all their future adventures, while Morty is lying on the garage floor. Jerry and Beth previously considered spending time apart in “Rixty Minutes”, however, unlike the latter episode, they actually act on it in this episode. There is a major continuity error in this episode. The point of Rick's interrogation is to obtain his Interdimensional Portal technology. However, during the Pilot, Ricks travels through Interdimensional Customs, which is run by the Galactic Federation, and they must therefore already have the technology.Although it could be that Rick's technology is far-more advanced and is clearly portable, in comparison to the Federation's stand-alone portals that have only been seen as a gateway from A to B.Not Necessarily, since that was Galactic Federation from dimension 35-C not Replacement dimension. Also note the Federation Portal was blue and only changed green after Rick made modifications while Morty was holding off their pursuers in a firefight. If the Galactic Federation in Rick C-137 Current Residential Dimension then they most likely have a similar less advanced version of Portal technology relative to Rick. (Similar to how the United States Government have a more "primitive" teleportation device relative to Rick tech as revealed in Season 3 Finale) Although it could be that Rick's technology is far-more advanced and is clearly portable, in comparison to the Federation's stand-alone portals that have only been seen as a gateway from A to B. Not Necessarily, since that was Galactic Federation from dimension 35-C not Replacement dimension. Also note the Federation Portal was blue and only changed green after Rick made modifications while Morty was holding off their pursuers in a firefight. If the Galactic Federation in Rick C-137 Current Residential Dimension then they most likely have a similar less advanced version of Portal technology relative to Rick. (Similar to how the United States Government have a more "primitive" teleportation device relative to Rick tech as revealed in Season 3 Finale) The title is a reference to the Stephen King novella turn film adaptation Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption. Rick chooses the restaurant Shoney's as a safe space in his memories, indicating that the Smith family live somewhere in the Southern United States, where the restaurant chain is based.However, a tweet from Justin Roiland identifies the location of the Smith residence being outside of Seattle. This might mean that Rick lived in the Southern United States at one point in his life, or that he spent a significant amount of time in the region. However, a tweet from Justin Roiland identifies the location of the Smith residence being outside of Seattle. This might mean that Rick lived in the Southern United States at one point in his life, or that he spent a significant amount of time in the region. The brain-link's simulation somewhat resembles the "memory puzzle" sequence from Fallout 4. The promotion for the Szechuan dipping sauce was a promotion for the 1998 Disney film Mulan. In spite of the movie's success, the sauce was discontinued by McDonalds and Rick has been trying to get more ever since.The reference to Mulan also reinforces Rick as an antithesis to the film's heroine. While Mulan selflessly worked hard to protect her nation's government in the face of sexism, Rick effortlessly toppled two governments for a selfish reason. The reference to Mulan also reinforces Rick as an antithesis to the film's heroine. While Mulan selflessly worked hard to protect her nation's government in the face of sexism, Rick effortlessly toppled two governments for a selfish reason. Rick mentions a "one-armed man" during his rant, a reference to the elusive antagonist of the 1960s TV series The Fugitive. When Morty and Summer are taken prisoner they are taken to The Citadel when they arrive, a Rick and Morty come out of the portal and that Morty carries a pile of books and at its base it seems to be a  Journal that looks a lot like the Gravity Falls it is not clear if it is Journal 1, 2 or 3. Another Gravity Falls Easter egg appears. In the Citadel of Ricks, two Morty's bear a striking resemblance to main characters Mabel and Dipper Pines. The Dipper Morty is even seen wearing the actual Dipper's hat. Birdperson's transformation into Phoenix person may be a reference to the X-Men character Angel, who was transformed into a more sinister version of himself called Archangel. It's also a reference to how Anakin Skywalker was remade into Darth Vader in Star Wars. During the chaos that ensues when Rick bankrupts the Federation, a voice can be heard shouting "He who controls the pants controls the galaxy!", which is probably a reference to the line "He who controls the spice controls the universe" from the 1984 movie Dune. One of members of Seal Team Rick's dimensional code is D-99, which may be a reference to Capcom's Ghost Trick: Phantom Detective in which one of the characters, Detective Jowd, has the same code as his Prisoner Number. Summer calls the Cronenberg universe Summer a Hunger Games version of herself, referencing the book series of the same name. Young Rick's house resembles the house of Walter White from the series, Breaking Bad. When Young Rick is given interdimensional travel technology by an alternate version of himself who had already developed it, it may be a reference to the pilot episode of the series, Sliders, which the same happened for Quinn Mallory. Phoenixperson's design resembles the Marvel Comics character Falcon. 