 Jerry: Please—like you didn't get an upgrade. What was it like having integrity for once? "The Jerrick Trap" is the second episode of the seventh season of Rick and Morty. It is the 63rd episode of the series overall. It premiered on October 22, 2023. It was written by Albro Lundy and James Siciliano and directed by Kyounghee Lim. The episode is rated TV-14-DLV. Synopsis: After an argument in the lab, Rick and Jerry swap minds and then things get hectic when both of them become one half of each other especially when criminal gangs are involved. Plot: While Rick is fixing his saucer in the garage, Jerry comes by asking for help. He claims that their next door neighbor Gene borrowed his rake and hasn't returned it yet despite Gene's claim that he doesn't have the rake. When Rick gives him a gun (for Jerry to use to kill Gene), Jerry insults Rick claiming that his mind is completely wasted on his addictions and personality. Taking offense to it, Rick decides they should swap minds for a bit so both of them can feel what's like to be in the other's shoes. Upon swapping minds, Rick in Jerry's body has a nervous breakdown before committing suicide with the gun. Jerry meanwhile is unable to control Rick's modifications in Rick's body before he accidentally kills himself after a jetpack misfire leaving the medical bot to fix them up. In the process, Rick and Jerry end up sharing half of each other's brains and merging their personalities. In the meantime, Morty is getting kidnapped by some low-level thugs in the employ of galactic mobster Chuxly. Chuxly soon realizes their mistake, tries to return Morty and apologize to Rick. As the mixed-up Rick and Jerry pair go to pick up Morty, the gangsters become suspicious of their weakness and attack them. However, Rick and Jerry fight back and stab Chuxly (with Rick’s conehead modification) through the torso, presumably killing him. Returning home, they soon find that in their current state they are happier than in their previous lives, so they flee Earth and the Smith family to go on criminal adventures, calling themselves Burger and Fries. Morty, Beth, and Summer travel the universe on a search for the mischievious pair, but get kidnapped by the henchmen of Chuxly, who is still quite alive. Burger and Fries come to the realization that they have become softer than Rick was and, taking responsibility for their family, decide to take more drastic measures. They save the kidnapped Smiths by fusing into a single entity, Jerricky, who proceeds to brutally kill Chuxly and his crew. Following that, Jerricky announces his decision to explore the galaxy, but the Smith family realize that the seperate personalities are still there inside the fused being, and so they make Jerricky separate into the original Rick and Jerry. Having learned nothing from their shared experience, the two of them resume their quarrels, though the rest of the family are glad to have them back. In the post credit scene which takes place in Jerry's mind, Memory Rick attempts to escape his son-in-law's mind but is constantly hampered by the fact he only finds gears and springs in every machine due to Jerry believing that's what all machines run on. Due to Memory Rick unable to create anything with them, he is only able to make lawn ornaments and sculptures to bide his time. Characters: Rick SanchezBurger (Jerry Rick)Memory Rick Burger (Jerry Rick) Memory Rick Jerry SmithFries (Rick Jerry) Fries (Rick Jerry) Jerricky Morty Smith Beth Smith Summer Smith Chuxly The Garage Gene Memory Gene Two Crows (mentioned) Jerry's school friend (flashback) Deaths: Aliens in the restaurant Mobsters chasing Burger and Fries Alien pirates Most of Chuxly's crew Chuxly Locations: Parmesan dimensionEarthSmith Residence EarthSmith Residence Smith Residence Dimension 5126 (flashback) Episode notes: In celebration of Season 7, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Chuxly as an avatar, plus Jerry Rick Morty and Rick Jerry Morty to catch. In the backyard of the Smith house, the graves of the previous Smith family plus Space Beth are seen, referencing the events of "Solaricks". Memory Rick is now living in Jerry's mind after Rick and Jerry are restored to normal. He previously transferred himself from Birdperson’s mind to Rick’s mind in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort". Summer mentions if Jerricky leaving will be like "the time with the crows", referencing the events of "Forgetting Sarick Mortshall". The episode's title is a reference to the film The Parent Trap. Jerricky bares a resemblance to the Human Centipede from the trilogy of the same name. Jerry mentions the film Freaky Friday after Rick talks about wanting to swap minds with him to prove his point. Jerry Rick mentions how telling the criminals where they are is a very Liam Neeson thing to do, referencing the film Taken. It is revealed that Rick gave himself a conehead implant after he watched the film Coneheads. One of the criminals throws the Glaive from Krull. After rolling barrels down the ramp, Jerricky beats his chest like Donkey Kong. A poster in the bar on the corkboard at the end depicting an alien with four boobs might be a reference to Total Recall, although the mutant in the bar in the movie only has three. 