 Rick Prime: Let's do this then.[punch]Rick Prime: You're welcome by the way. I made you. I showed you infinity.[punch]Rick Prime: And what did you do with it? Hang out with MY grandson? Raise echoes of MY daughter?[punch]Rick Prime: What's your life without me?[punch]Rick: Let's find out. "Unmortricken" is the fifth episode of the seventh season of Rick and Morty. It is the 66th episode of the series overall. It premiered on November 12, 2023. It was written by Albro Lundy and James Siciliano and directed by Jacob Hair. The episode is rated TV-MA-LV. Synopsis: The search for Rick Prime takes Rick and Morty to the vast reaches of the multiverse where they have to team up with an old enemy to bring him down for good. Plot: In an extended flashback, Evil Morty's past is shown: his initial betrayal of his Rick, killing multiple Ricks and kidnapping various Morties while trying to figure out how to get beyond the Central Finite Curve, scheming to become president of The Citadel, and his final escape. After successfully escaping various creatures in the other dimensions as he gathers resources, he retires to his space mansion. Unfortunately, his peace is interrupted by various portals opening up, which he is angered to learn are caused by Rick C-137 and Morty Prime. Rick and Morty are working together to track down Rick Prime, by teleporting every Rick Prime (or, as it turns out, his various decoys) they noticed in other dimensions into one place and trying to figure out which is Rick Prime. Evil Morty arrives, complaining that their "fracking" of the Central Finite Curve is messing with his peace, and suggests Rick adjust the scanner ray to filter for probability stasis. This seems to bring in a different kind of Rick Prime, but Rick suspects a trap while Evil Morty suggests Rick is just disappointed that he needed someone else's help, and Evil Morty at that. Morty gets tired of their argument and tries to kill the Rick Prime they caught, but instead activates a black portal fluid trap that brings them into a prison for Ricks who also tried to track down Rick Prime. A video image of Rick Prime appears, and explains after he personally killed all of the Ricks' Dianes, he also killed Diane in every universe across infinity using a "weapon too cool for a name" ( but is "known to inferiors as the Omega Device"). He offers to let one of the Ricks have their Diane back by killing each other in a tournament-style battle royale. Despite Rick's warning that Rick Prime is lying, the other Ricks proceed to kill each other, with Rick and Evil Morty teaming up in the end to kill the last Rick. As predicted, Rick Prime's promise was a lie and a bomb imbued with Diane's face and personality is dropped into the room, which Rick and Evil Morty destroy before combining their knowledge and resources to get them and Morty out of the prison and into Rick's basement laboratory. Using the remaining fluid from the portal trap, Rick finally manages to track down Rick Prime's location for real. Evil Morty elects to stick around, knowing the existence of the Omega Device threatens him as well, but Rick decides to kill Rick Prime by himself and finally get revenge. Evil Morty warns Morty that just letting Rick kill Rick Prime will not end well for him emotionally, which convinces Morty to join Evil Morty in following Rick. Rick arrives at Rick Prime's lair, fighting off various drones along the way. Entering the main chamber that houses the Omega Device, he is angered to realize Morty and Evil Morty followed him. Rick Prime appears, impressed that "dead-wife Rick" tracked him down. He calls out Rick for using Diane's voice for his Space Cruiser AI, and threatens to use the Omega Device on Rick and his family. He starts by killing Slow Mobius, or "Uncle Slow", to Rick's horror and Morty's confusion (the latter having not known they were related). A vicious, brutal fight ensues, with Rick, Morty, and Evil Morty combining forces to stop Rick Prime. Eventually, with Morty and Rick knocked out from the fight, Evil Morty is able to incapacitate Rick Prime by swapping outfits with Morty and faking a reunion with Rick Prime's "original grandson." Dragging Rick Prime into another room, Evil Morty restrains him and scans his mind. He preemptively erases Prime's backup clones to prevent him from coming back, before finding and downloading the schematics for the Omega Device. He then drags in Rick's body and revives him, offering him free rein to get his revenge. Rick Prime warns Rick that he should stop Evil Morty while he has the chance, but Rick begins punching him. His healing field having been deactivated in the fight, Rick Prime defiantly taunts Rick for having become just like him in the end as he is slowly beaten to death. Evil Morty disables the Omega Device just as Rick emerges, covered in Rick Prime's blood. Evil Morty observes that Rick appears unsatisfied at having gotten revenge, before reminding Rick he has the means to recreate the Omega Device if he so chooses. But he won't, at least for now, as he points out that such a weapon would only bring him the same problems it brought Rick Prime (such as "vengeful Summers"), whereas he just wants to be left alone. Begrudgingly, though, he admits that there is something a little different about Rick than all the others he's seen. He notes he may find Rick useful one day as he leaves, though he again reminds Rick and Morty not to follow him. Morty and Rick return home, with Morty celebrating the defeat of Rick Prime. Rick, on the other hand, is left disillusioned at having lost his purpose after finally succeeding in his life-long revenge quest. He observes as life goes on for the rest of the family, whereas he goes through his daily activities with a thousand-yard stare (mirroring Morty at the end of "Rick Potion No. 9"). In a post-credits scene, Slow Mobius's widow is shown emotionally spiraling after the death of her husband, searching the galaxy for his murderer as she seeks revenge much like Rick after the death of Diane. Distinctly unlike Rick, however, she encounters another being who similarly lost their spouse and the two become romantic partners, raising their children together and ultimately moving on from their respective spouses' deaths while still keeping them in their memories. Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Rick Prime Evil Morty Summer Smith Jerry Smith Beth Smith Space Beth Dimensional travel family James Bond Rick Disheveled Rick Indiana Jones Rick Nerd Rick Nice Rick John McClane Rick Slow Mobius Slow Mobius's wife Slow Mobius's daughter Slow Mobius's son Green Alien Green Alien's son Green Alien's wife (Pictured) Diane Sanchez (Mentioned & Flashback) Evil Rick Sanchez (Flashback) Rick Sanchez (Evil Rick's Target Dimension) (Flashback) Morty Smith (Evil Rick's Target Dimension) (Flashback) Jerry Smith (Evil Rick's Target Dimension) (Flashback) Beth Smith (Evil Rick's Target Dimension) (Flashback) Summer Smith (Evil Rick's Target Dimension) (Flashback) The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick (Flashback) Turtleneck Rick (Flashback) Turtleneck Morty (Flashback) Ricktiminus Sancheziminius (Flashback) Crop Top Morty (Flashback) Cyclops Morty (Flashback) Antenna Morty (Flashback) Artist Morty (Flashback) Reality Devouring Monster (cameo) Tortured Mortys (Flashback) Snuffles (Pictured) Beth Smith Prime (indirectly mentioned) Deaths: Various Rick Prime clones John McClane Rick James Bond Rick Nerd Rick Nice Rick Indiana Jones Rick Disheveled Rick Slow Mobius (erased across infinity) Three versions of the Dimensional travel family Various alien species Rick Prime  Locations: Dimension 79⊢⊇V (Flashback) Parmesan dimension EarthSmith Residence Smith Residence The Citadel (Flashback)Morty Mart (Flashback)Morty Agency Morty Mart (Flashback) Morty Agency Crustula (Flashback) Dimension C-290 (Flashback) Evil Rick's Target Dimension (Flashback) Omega Device Prime Dimension (indirectly mentioned) Episode notes: This is the fourth episode of Rick and Morty to be rated TV-MA  from the FCC, the first three being "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate", "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender", and "Bethic Twinstinct". This is the seventh episode (after "Auto Erotic Assimilation", "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate", "The Rickshank Rickdemption", "The Ricklantis Mixup", "Never Ricking Morty", and "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation") that has the intro shortened to the title only. This is the only episode of Season 7 to not include its corresponding screenshot from the episode title reveal video. The screenshot shown for this episode was instead used in "The Jerrick Trap". This was likely done due to the fact that this episode contains many story spoilers and the creators wanting to keep everything about it a secret. In celebration of Season 7, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Rick Prime as an avatar, plus Original Grandson Morty and Uncle Slow Morty to catch. During the scene where Evil Morty dons his eye patch and attacks his Rick, a snippet of a slow, piano version of the melody from "For the Damaged Coda" (widely accepted as Evil Morty's theme) plays. It has been revealed that all Dianes in all realities have been erased across infinity, making her fully deceased in all realities. Clips of Evil Morty and his Rick dragging away a Morty from a designated dimension and Mortys beating down Evil Rick from "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" are shown.We also see how the The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick was murdered. However, his death is different than from the original episode: here, he is shown to be stabbed in the abdomen, although in the episode itself he was shot through the cheek.A clip of Evil Rick being beaten was not only reanimated, but his voice was also redubbed by Ian Cardoni instead of Justin Roiland. In the same clip, he is only attacked by regular Mortys, but in the episode itself, several cloaked Mortys were also by their side. We also see how the The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick was murdered. However, his death is different than from the original episode: here, he is shown to be stabbed in the abdomen, although in the episode itself he was shot through the cheek. A clip of Evil Rick being beaten was not only reanimated, but his voice was also redubbed by Ian Cardoni instead of Justin Roiland. In the same clip, he is only attacked by regular Mortys, but in the episode itself, several cloaked Mortys were also by their side. Receptionist Rick in the Morty Agency scolds Evil Morty about wearing an eyepatch, a callback to Rick having a fear of pirates seen in "The Rickchurian Mortydate". Evil Morty complains that Rick should be turning himself into a pickle. In a running gag, Rick keeps trying to shoot Evil Morty on the off-chance his force field is down, which he previously tried to do in "Rickmurai Jack." Slow Mobius returns, last seen in "Ricksy Business", and is revealed to be Rick's "Uncle Slow," much to Morty's confusion. The existence of a Diane AI in Dimension C-137 as depicted in "Solaricks" offered an early hint that the Garage and Space Cruiser AI, all voiced by Diane's voice actor Kari Wahlgren, were meant to have Diane's voice. This was finally confirmed in this episode by Rick Prime. The reality devouring monster from "Mort Dinner Rick Andre" returns in this episode, where it is seen while Evil Morty is on his way to his space mansion. Rick’s base of operations in sublevel B10 from "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation" appears again when Rick, Morty, and Evil Morty escape Rick Prime’s trap. Evil Morty downloads schematics from Rick Prime entitled "Booger Aids V2," continuing the trend of Ricks not liking to name things and as a result naming everything "Booger Aids." This trait is seen in "Morty's Mind Blowers" and "Solaricks". Rick's thousand-yard stare at the end of this episode is a callback to the ending of "Rick Potion No. 9", with the scene once again backed by the song "Look on Down from the Bridge" by Mazzy Star. Much like Morty in that case, the events of this episode have left Rick in a very different world from before (though not literally in the way "Rick Potion No. 9" ended). At one point in the ending, while Rick looks out the window after having grabbed a can of beer, he sees Beth, Space Beth and Jerry having fun while washing Space Beth's spaceship, thus maintaining their status as a throuple they established back in "Bethic Twinstinct". The post-credits scene with Slow Mobius's wife/Rick's aunt is a callback to the montage of Rick's spiral from "Rickmurai Jack": she is shown performing actions that parallel scenes from the montage, such as building her own space cruiser, searching the galaxy for her husband's murderer, and eating ramen at a futuristic ramen bar. Unlike Rick, however, she is able to make peace with her spouse's death and move on after meeting another being with similar experiences (something the former should have done). The episode's title is a reference to the film Unforgiven. The family that appears beyond the Central Finite Curve bares a resemblance to the Jetsons. Two of the Ricks captured by Rick Prime are parodies of Indiana Jones and James Bond from the film series of the same names. One of the Ricks captured by Rick Prime bears a resemblance to John McLane, the protagonist of the Die Hard film series. During their battle, Rick Prime uses a Kuato-version of himself against Evil Morty, referencing the Kuato from the film Total Recall. Evil Rick attempting to stab himself with a broken plate shard due to being held hostage by Evil Morty is very similar to Krazy-8's attempt to do the same name after being held hostage by Walter White in the television series Breaking Bad. The giant Diane robots during Rick and Rick Prime's battle are similar to the Human-Reapers from the Mass Effect video game series. When confronting Evil Morty, Rick Prime mentions they could team up like Batman and Robin. When Rick Prime asks Rick what his life is like without him if he kills him and Rick responds with it being time to find out, it references what Megatron asked Optimus Prime in Transformers: Dark of the Moon. When Morty Prime inserts a battery into one of the machines on Rick C-137's ship, the sound it makes is the same sound an Apple MacBook plays when a charging cable is plugged in. 