 "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer" is the seventh episode of the seventh season of Rick and Morty. It is the 68th episode of the series overall. It premiered on November 26, 2023. It was written by Alex Song-Xia and directed by Kyounghee Lim. The episode is rated TV-14-DLV. Synopsis: Rick gives Summer an Attribute Slider as payment for helping clean up his messes. When Morty wants it for himself, the siblings are thrown into an adventure where the term "sibling bond" is given a whole new meaning for them. Plot: After doing Rick's chores (including cleaning up another "Morty's Mind Blowers") Summer demands Rick pay up by giving her an attribute slider, which will adjust her stats so that she can use to attend the Frolf (Frisby-Golf) Mixer at Jimmy's house. Morty, who is also attending the party, asks for one too as he has wanted one for ages but Rick refuses. At the party, Summer impresses the other partygoers with her increased dexterity and strength, and adjusting her charisma to flirt with Jimmy. Morty grows fed up and steals the attribute slider from Summer, briefly using it to give her increased intelligence that gives her a literally enlarged brain while he uses it to buff his body to impress Tricia Lange. However, Summer holds her own by using her intelligence to create a Rube Goldberg-like chain of events that cause Morty to trip and embarrass himself. The two fight until they fall into the pool with the device. The result is Summer and Morty becoming a kuato (from Total Recall): the two enfuse with Morty becoming a small being protruding from Summer's stomach who can only repeat the phrase, "Open your mind." Rick refuses to help Summer until the next day when she can fulfill the chore wheel. However, Summer gets a targeted ad about a club called Mind Openerz where she can party with other kuatos. There she meets another kuato named Kwyatt, who invites her to party led by a kuato named Kenneth. She parties with the rest of the kuatos before ostensibly leaving with Kwyatt. However, just as she is ready to have a moment, he reveals himself to be a lure as she is abruptly kidnapped and sedated. She wakes up being loaded into an incinerator, with Morty having been removed from her stomach. She uses her robotic ponytail (a device Rick installed) to free herself and kills the mortician before he can try to kill another former kuato, a woman she met at the bar. Summer tracks down Kwyatt and beats him up for Morty's location: Kwyatt reveals Morty is going to be auctioned off to the highest bidder, part of a trafficking scheme by Kenneth. She forces Kwyatt to take her to Kenneth. Meanwhile Rick notices that Summer has neglected her chores and chases her down to Mind Openerz, beating up various others for information, though he has to apologize to a few after it turns out most of them were low money-making bystanders who just happened to briefly meet Summer. They meet up shortly after he manages to punch some people who actually deserved it, as she is dragging Kwyatt to find Kenneth. Rick reveals, per kuato lore, Summer can open a psychic link with Morty—the reason Morty was shouting "Open your mind"—to track him down. Summer manages to get in touch and Morty gives her his location. They arrive at Kenneth's lair, where Kwyatt is killed through psychic warfare as punishment for leading them there. Rick tricks two of the guards into running away by feigning his own psychic powers before he and Summer search for Morty throughout the complex. They track him down to a boat, only to have to fight off all of Kenneth's guards. During the fight, Summer complains that the only reason they are in this mess is because Rick would not unmerge them when asked, complaining that Rick lets Morty do everything for free. Rick reveals in annoyance that Morty is basically a dog who follows him around for free, whereas Rick sees Summer more as a cat as he respects her as an equal since she reminds him of her grandmother. They finish off the guards while Kuato Morty holds his own by sedating Kenneth's scientist. Summer and Rick confront Kenneth, whose kuato abruptly jumps out of him, killing Kenneth in the process, into a robotic spider legs device. Rick is unimpressed, even when another kuato emerges from the same kuato's stomach and reveals himself as the mastermind. Kuato Morty arrives and promptly starts beating up the kuato's kuato, who then starts fighting him with a kuato knife and missiles from his spider device. The kuato's kuato then reveals another kuato, and is about to reveal another one before Rick finally grows fed-up with the gimmick. He promptly takes control of the device, sending the kuato (and the device with it) tumbling into the water to drown. However, Morty admits to Summer he wanted the spider device, prompting Rick to try and bring it back with the kuato still in it. When it gets stuck halfway up the side of the boat, the constant shaking of the device briefly revives the kuato, though he unceremoniously gets dumped out, and Morty gets the spider device. Impressed by the device's capabilities, Summer has Kuato Morty join the school's Frolf Team. Impressed, Jimmy tries to flirt with Summer, but she politely turns him down, instead choosing to go out with the woman she saved from Kenneth. Jimmy is impressed at this revelation of Summer's "complexity", only to be interrupted by an off-screen explosion: Morty activated one of the missiles in the device and destroyed the stadium's bleachers. In the post credit scene, the buyer who wanted to buy Kuato Morty is relaxing in his lounge with his friends waiting for him to arrive unaware that the trade was interfered by Rick and Summer. The buyers then tell jokes that have the number 69 in it to pass the time as the buyer paid 69 million florbos for Morty. Characters: Rick Sanchez Morty Smith Summer Smith Kenneth Jimmy Tricia Lange Brad Nancy Beth Smith Kwyatt Godiva BuyersMichael Michael Bruce Chutback (cameo) Bullies (cameo) Holly Hooks (cameo) Mitch (cameo) Flansians (cameo) Boobloosians (cameo) Amfiddians (cameo) Rick Prime (mentioned) Deaths: Locations: Parmesan dimensionEarthSmith ResidenceThe GarageKitchenHarry Herpson High School EarthSmith ResidenceThe GarageKitchenHarry Herpson High School Smith Residence The Garage Kitchen Harry Herpson High School Episode notes: This is the first episode name of the series to include Summer's name. Most others use the name Rick (such as "Rick Potion #9" and "Total Rickall") while others use Morty (such as "Mortynight Run" and "Morty's Mind Blowers"), do not feature a main character name (such as "Meeseeks and Destroy" and "Get Schwifty") or feature both main character names (in the case of "The Rickchurian Mortydate").With the release of this episode, all of the main characters have had their names used in an episode title. With the release of this episode, all of the main characters have had their names used in an episode title. In celebration of Season 7, Pocket Mortys' weekly updates coincided with new episodes, including new avatars for players to collect. With the release of this episode came Attribute Slider Summer as an avatar, plus Juiced Up Morty and Frolf Morty to catch. Summer and Morty have been merged before in Rick and Morty's Rushed Licensed Adventure. Morty reminds Rick that he helped him defeat Rick Prime, referencing the events of "Unmortricken." A kuato first appeared also in "Unmortricken" where Rick Prime briefly used one while fighting Evil Morty.The Garage AI reminds Rick that he has based its voice off his dead wife, which was also revealed in that episode. The Garage AI reminds Rick that he has based its voice off his dead wife, which was also revealed in that episode. The Frolf Mixer Jimmy invited Morty to in “Rickfending Your Mort” is the same party Summer and Morty went to in this episode. Rick mentions that Summer reminds him of Diane, which he previously did in "Solaricks." Summer never watching Total Recall continues the trend of her not seeing certain movies that are relevant to the plot of the episode, which started in "Rick: A Mort Well Lived" with her not watching Die Hard, but this time with a more critical reception. In the beginning of the episode, Summer cleans up the memory room, previously shown in "Morty's Mind Blowers." Summer stopping Rick from intervening with Morty and Kenneth's fight is similar to Morty stopping Beth from intervening with Jerry and Pissmaster's fight in "Analyze Piss." The episode's title is a reference to the film Wet Hot American Summer. Morty becomes a Kuato attached to Summer, referencing the Kuato from the film Total Recall, which is referenced throughout the episode. The girl who complements Summer's Kuato says "Oh My Glob!", a possible nod to the animated series Adventure Time. The buyers who want to buy Kuato Morty resemble the VIPs from the Korean drama television series Squid Game. Summer's kidnapping and Morty's rescue references the film Taken. It is referenced again when Kwyatt mentions that Morty was brought to a "Taken house" and Rick asking Summer if the adventure is her first "Taken". Rick saying "Go go ponytail secret move!" to activate Summer's ponytail implant references Inspector Gadget. When Morty awakes after being removed from Summer, the Room number on the door reads “237”, which is a possible nod to the film The Shining. 