Before we move off this topic, can I ask if you're currently a hologram? Rick: Yeah, yeah, h-hold on, one sec, left a bag of funyuns down there last week. Didn't want to waste our time. Okay therapy me  Wong: Do you need to take that?  Rick: No just the president Wong: Maybe we should turn off the phone  Rick: Thought you might think it was cool. Wong: You like it when people think you're cool? Rick: You're extra analytical today. Looking to remodel your kitchen? President: Sanchez! I know you're in there when I call you directly it's an emergency. Rick: I was in therapy Don't stigmatize mental health President: how rude of me Hello I'm the president  Wong: Yes I recognise you  President: Oh? how nice  Rick: It's not nice to recognize a president can we go President: In 1961 the CIA secretly relocated the loch Ness monster to lake Erie and replaced her bones with titanium she was then but by several werewolves giving us the ultimate anti submarine weapon Rick: Got it President: But the Soviets smuggled in a reprechuan  who turned Nessie's bones into silver giving her the were version of aids. She sank to the bottom we assumed she was dead but she was only asleep now she's awake and hungry. Rick: You can't date my shrink  President: What?! Bro you're nuts Rick: Then don't date my shrink  President: I'm not dating your shrink! She probably doesn't even like me. Stand down Sanchez! Rick: Tell him to stand down! Would you let him bang your therapist? I don't believe in therapy!  Rick: What the hell does that even mean you don't believe in it? He's a Scientologist Rick: Don't date my shrink! And don't be a space Mormon! Why not?! It's silly! Sorry it's a cheap shpt. Worship how you want. I like Tom Cruise Thank you. Therapy's working. Keep it in your pants ( Applause ) Ooh, welcome back to Mr. Stabby! Let's get another question from the audience! Audience member: Ow! Augh!  Why do people get tickets to his tapings? It's a fame-obsessed culture. ( Cellphone vibrates )  Rick: Mr. President.  President: I've got an emergency, Rick. Another President mission? Y-You just killed the Loch Ness Monster for him.  President: Tell that little bitch to zip it.  Morty: You can't talk to me like that! T-Tell him he can't talk to me like that!  Rick: You can't talk to Morty like that. Whatever. I'll portal over. I've seen this one anyway. The audience dies.  President: Rick, thanks for coming. We've got a situation in the state of Virginia.  Rick: Bigfoot?  President: That's Montana.  Rick: Nazis?  President: That's, uh...everywhere.  Carl: That's an exaggeration, sir. ( Sighs )  President: Jesus, Carl, you, too? The problem in Virginia is... love. You've heard the state motto, "Virginia is for Lovers"? Well, now they've codified it into law. Virginia has declared itself literally and exclusively for lovers.  Rick: Sounds boring.  President: It gets worse. There's no crime, no poverty, and suspiciously, no complaints. The governor just hit 100% approval rating. And that's worse? 100%? Get on the web, Dwayne. There's no such thing as 100% of anything. America knows and incinerates a cult when it sees one. But I can't do that to all of Virginia, so we need to infiltrate.  Rick: I volunteer to do acid to prove I'm not a cop.  President: No lone wolves. We need a crack team for this one. Rick, meet Fleeflak. He might be able to tell the future.  Rick: Might?  President: We're waiting to find out. Onyx here is a weapons specialist, and our eye in the sky is my chief of staff bot, Chi-Chi. Sleek. Yes, an excellent team. Eh, but there's something missing... a psychology expert, perhaps.  Rick: Oh, fսck me. You pretended to need a crack team so you could get Wong's number?  President: Get her number? I own the CIA. If I wanted, I could get her genome.  Rick: So you wanted what from me, permission? You got it. It's a free country, so you're always saying. That's certainly all I'd be willing to pay.  President: You're making me choose? You or her?  Rick: There's three billion women on this planet that have nothing to do with me.  President: Can you blame them?  Rick: You suck.  Fleeflak: Wait! Danger!  Rick: Wow, that's great, buddy. It's goin' right on the fridge.  President: I appreciate your lending your expertise to this mission, Dr. Wong. Gum? Wong: No, thank you. I was surprised to receive your call but excited. I haven't done field work since grad school.  President: We think the people of Virginia have become some kind of hippy sеx cult.  Wong: I haven't done that since grad school, either. President: Ho-ho! Dr. Wong, you are a firecracker!  Sir, we've reached the border.   Mayor: Halt! I'm so sorry, Mr. President, Virginia is closed to visitors.  President: I thought it was for lovers. I'm a lover. You guys lovers? Mm-hmm.  Mayor: I appreciate that, but the rest of your country doesn't need Virginia's love right now.  President: You know, the last time a state talked that way, we had to have a whole thing.  And?  Wong: And this time, the other side has nukes. ( Sighs )  Let them in.  President: Well done, Doctor.  Wong: Call me Helen. ( Cellphone vibrates ) ( Cellphone stops )  As you can see, Virginia has no crime, no poverty. All goods are freely given.  President: Communist bastards.  And all goods are freely made.  President: Communist bastards! So, what happened? Tell me the secret.  Well, if I tell you, you'll tell everyone. But if I show you, you won't have to.  President: How unsettling and cryptic. (Roars) Oh! My God! So that's it? You're all just drunk! Sir! It's some kind of body-snatching hive-mind!  President: finally your religion comes in handy! No! My only chance at meeting Will Smith!  Rick: Pick up your phone asshole when I call it's an actual emergency!  Unity: Rick? Rick: Unity  Unity: Take it easy. Take it easy. I can explain  just let me get things under control.  Rick: you controlling things is the explanation and we agreed you wouldn't do it where I work  Unity: what the fuck are you spraying me with  Rick: A new scent I picked up after you left I call it "Separation'  Unity: You concocted a me repellent? Rick: Does that look like a bad idea? Wong: Rick are you in a relationship with the population of Virginia Rick: We dated  All: I just want to talk.  Rick: I'm pretty sure you have trillions of cellphones. No, come back! Let's talk! ♪ ♪ Thank God you had a crack team with you.  President: Where's Helen?  Rick: "Helen"?  President: She initiated first name. Whoa! Call in a chopper! I'm being cock blocked!  Wong: Rick... it's me. I was released from Unity.  Rick: Cool. So you won't mind if I spray this.  Wong: I won't, but we're surrounded and Unity knows your reload time. I really believe you and Unity should talk.  Rick: How would you know? You're just a nutritionist. Wong: When you work in nutritionism as long as I have, you get a certain feel. All: Calm down. We came because we're worried about you.  Rick: Why?  Unity: We hear things, Rick. I tried calling, but is it true you're looking for...him again? You almost died last time.  Rick: That's none of your business.  All: You're our business.  Rick: You quit that business! And you're fired from that business! And I'm using your last paycheck to cover the stapler you stole which was my heart!  President: Civil War, baby! ( People screaming ) Sorry! That was supposed to be suppressive!  Aah! Aah! Rick, wait! Aah!  Wong: Thank you, Andre.  President: Thank you, Helen. It's time to put these bastards on ice. Cue up the dome!  Yes, sir! ♪ ♪ Ow! ♪ ♪  Do you have a dome the size of every state? ( Chuckles )  President: You'll need a second date for that answer.  Rick: Barf.  News Anchor: A nation in turmoil tonight as the entire state of Virginia continues to be trapped inside an energy dome. The White House released a statement dismissing the President's shouts of "Civil War, baby," as hyperbole. Shonda, what do we make of that? More like Hyper Bully, Tom. Oh, sh¡t. Shonda came to play.  Shonda: This President has been in office for how many alien invasions? Not to mention the mutant turkeys, the abandoned White House orbiting our planet, the eco-conscious dinosaurs. Then he sees Virginia with its perfect economy and synchronized lawn mowing, so he shoots them and puts them in a dome? Classic Curtis. President: Will someone mute the goddamn news? If I want a list of my failures, I'd dig up my mother. I'm -- I'm -- I'm -- I'm sorry, that's a turnoff, right?Guy screaming about his mother in a war room? Sanchez! America hates your dome! How long is it going to be up?     Rick:      It will contain that part of Unity until I shut it down, because one of us here knows how to set boundaries.  Wong: Rick, I agree that my accepting this mission was inappropriate. When I was invited, I didn't know --  Rick: That he was hitting on you?  Wong: I was aware of potential romantic motivations. And I was open to them. Bam. But I did not know you and I would be crossing paths.  Rick: You mean you didn't care because, on one hand, you got professional ethics and, in the other hand, you got world-famous schlong.  President: Now I get to beat you.  Rick: Bring it.  Alien vessel approaching Earth! It's hailing us!    Rick: Put it through.   I don't work for you.  Rick: You couldn't. You suck. I'll do it. Mr. President. Lady, you bring that ship to America's planet, I'm launching 4,000 warheads, 3,000 of which will turn out to work. Then I'll call China, and you're really fսckеd.  Let's listen to Unity. Are you still here? Are you?  If I wanted Earth, I would have taken it. Oh, bullshit. Gimme a break.  You cut eight million pieces of me off. It hurt. Boo-hoo.  Unity: You've made it clear can't be friends, Rick, but I need to reconnect those people so I can properly release them. They're hosting a mindless collective. If it connects to another mind, it could become its own colony.  Wow, you made a PowerPoint?  Unity: I needed you to understand how serious this is. I can handle it. We got the spray, b¡tch!   Rick: Don't talk to them like that.   Rick, do you not trust Unity? Shut up. Apologize. Eat me.  Unity: Do you not trust me Rick? President: Who would?! Wong: Let Rick answer.   President: Baby I know you want to help but-   Wong: Andre I think we need to move slower.   President: Slower? I haven't even touched you, and you're already back seat war rooming.   Wong: Andre.   President: Helen.   Unity: Rick?  Rick: I don't trust you. You ghosted me to focus on your work. Your work is absorbing the universe. But it's my universe. Please go. Well spray the Virginians before they touch anyone. I'm sorry you lost a finger, but that's the price of surprise butt play Goodbye Unity: Goodbye Alien vessel is departing  good job people