Transcript: [Open Ext. Smith residence] (Outside, there is snow on the ground. The Smith house isdecorated for Christmas, and Jerry can be heard singing Last King Christmas.) Jerry:*singing* Last King Christmas last arrived! [Trans Int. Kitchen] (The kitchen is a mess of food in various stages ofpreparation. Jerry pulls a ham out of the oven as he sings.) Jerry: *singing*In the Christmas Christmas! *stops singing and smells the ham* Mmm... Jerry, youare really giving it to this ham. (Jerry enters the living room, where a tree stands withpresents underneath it. Beth and Morty are occupied on tablets while Summeruses her smartphone.) Jerry: Um,Merry Christmas? *puts his hands on his hips* Helloooo? My parents are comingover for the first time in years! Can we stow the gadgets and look alive? Beth: Alive?For your parents? (Jerry snags her tablet away and stows it in a stocking.) Jerry: Goodone. Beth: Hey man! Jerry: You ‘heyman’! This holiday is about humanity. Morty: *notlooking up from his tablet* You know, I thought it was about being bornhalf-God or something. Jerry: Okay,whatever. All electronic items are going in the stocking. Now. Morty: *handsover his tablet* Ohhhh... Summer: Dad, I'm not giving you my phone. Jerry: Put itin the stocking, Summer, or I'm joining Facebook. (Summer gasps and drops her phone in the stocking.) Rick:*offscreen* Ho ho ho, everybody. (Rick and Ruben enter the house and Jerry approachesthem.) Jerry: Morelike whoa whoa whoa. What is this? My parents are coming! Rick: Calmdown Jerry, this is Ruben, an old friend. Ruben: PearlHarbor. Rick: I checkin on him once a year and give him a little *burp* medical *burp* evaluation. Beth: Aw, Dad...That is so sweet. Jerry:*squinting suspiciously* Yeah, it is... I don't get it. Ruben: Korea. Rick: Don'tworry about your C-C-Christmas, Jerry. *leads Ruben away* Ruben and I'll be inmy workshop while you have another day in Phil Collins’ proverbial paradise. (Rick and Ruben head out to the garage.) Jerry: Huh.You think you know a guy. (The doorbell rings.) Okay, there's my parents. Nowremember, no TV, no phones, no laptops, we are connecting this Christmas, likeold-school Jews on a Saturday. *opens the door* Hey hey! (Leonard and Joyce walk in.) Leonard: MerryChristmas, son. (Jerry, not noticing Jacob, almost closes the door onhim, then opens it back up.) Jerry: Oh, hi.Can I help you? Joyce: Jerry,this is Jacob. *takes Jacob by the arm* Didn't you get our text message? Beth, Summer, andMorty: No. Jacob: Youmust be Jerry! That's a fine lookin’ apron. William Sonoma? Jerry: *smilinguncomfortably* I wish... But thank you. *closes the door* So... you're a...friend ofthe family...? Leonard: *putsan arm around Jacob's shoulders* The way we see it, he's a part of the family. Jerry: Wow! Joyce: Afteryour father's brush with cancer and losing your uncle, we looked at life andwondered how have we spent it? And how do we spend the rest of it? What are wegoing to be when we die? A list of fears and questions, or a collection of realexperiences? Beth: Holycrap, Joyce. That's amazing. Leonard: ThenJacob came into our lives. We’re learning to live again. (Jacob puts his arms around Joyce and Leonard.) Jacob: Allthree of us. (Joyce, Leonard, and Jacob giggle. Jerry stares at them,confused and uncomfortable.) Jerry: ...Cool...Eggnog? Jacob: Now weare talkin’! This man's got the apron and the eggnog, huh? (All laugh. Rick enters and starts laughing with therest.) Rick: HiJoyce, Leonard. *looks at Jacob* Hello there. Jacob: MerryChristmas, man. Rick: Morty! Amoment of your time? [Trans. Rick's garage] (Ruben is in fits, laid out on a ping-pong table. He'snaked besides a towel over his genitals and his Santa hat.) Rick: He's inbad shape, Morty. Morty: Awgeez, Rick! What did you do? Rick: Gee,thanks Morty. What kind of monster do you think I am? I-I'm sittin’ here tryingto save the guy's life! (Rick straps a pack with a tube onto Morty's back andputs an earpiece on his head.) I want you to find Dr. Xenon Bloom. He'll knowwhat's goin’ on. Morty:*extremely nervous* Uh... W-W-Where do I find Dr. Bloom? Rick: InRuben. *shoves a glass oxygen mask onto Morty's head* Morty: Ruben...Minnesota? Rick: Ruben onthe table, Morty! *hooks up the backpack to the helmet* Look, I-I don't have timefor you to wrap your little walnut around everything. *pulls a shrink ray intoview and plugs it in* Hold your breath until the process is over or your lungswill collapse. (Rick sets Morty under the shrink ray.) Morty: W-Whatproc— (Rick activates the shrink ray and Morty shrieks as he'sshrunk down to a microscopic size. Rick picks up the container Morty shrankinto and puts it into a syringe, which he stabs into Ruben's chest. Just then, Bethenters the garage.) Beth: Hey Dad,where's Morty? Rick: He'sbusy. [Trans. Int. Ruben's body] (Morty continues screaming as he is injected into thebody in a stream of pink fluid. He lands on something soft and abruptly stopsshouting.) Rick (throughMorty's earpiece): Morty, can you hear me? Head North! Morty: Rick...Where am I? [Trans. Garage] Rick: *adjustshis own headset as he stands in the garage* Depending on my aim, you should bejust south of the entrance. Morty (throughRick's earpiece): The entrance to what? Rick: Welcome,Morty. (The scene cuts back to Morty's view from inside Ruben.) Welcome... (Mortygasps.) ...to Anatomy Park! (The view pans to show an amusement park with a largeAnatomy Park sign and various attractions and exhibits.) Rick: It's alittle business venture I’ve been cookin’ up on the side with Dr. Bloom. (Mortyenters the park.) An amusement park inside a human body. Science isn't cheap,Morty. This should really help put a dent in the overhead. Morty: Oh myGod! This is insane! Spleen Mountain? Bladder Falls? Pirates of the Pancreas? Rick: You gota problem with that last one, Morty? Morty: Huh?No, no, I'm just reading them out loud in the order I'm seeing them. Rick: Okay,alright, if I sounded a little defensive, it's because Pirates of the Pancreaswas my baby. [Trans. Garage] Rick: I-I gota lot of push-back when I pitched it, Morty. I guess I'm still a littledefensive. Let's just find Dr. Bloom, alright? I-I'm picking up a distresssignal in the liver, Morty. [Trans. Anatomy Park.] Rick: Proceedto the liver. (Following a sign posting directions, Morty hurries offin the direction of the ‘Haunted Liver,’ taking a shuttle to ‘Lower Abdomenland’.) Automated voice:Arriving at ‘Liver’. Morty: *stumblesforward and hits his helmet on the window* Ow! Automated voice:Mind the gap. (Morty exits the train and enters a dark, unkempt areawith flickering lights.) Morty: It'sreally scary in here, Rick. Rick: Liver'sunder maintenance. Ruben's seen some rough years, Morty. Don't judge. You don'tagree to have a theme park built inside you if your life's going great. [Trans. Int. Haunted Liver] (Morty enters a haunted house-style attraction. An animatronicwolf suddenly springs up behind him.) Morty:OOOOHHH! Rick, it's a monster! Rick: No no,Morty. The only monster here is alco— *belch* —holism. (The wolf ismechanically pulled back into the wall.) That is an animatronic werewolf. (A hand reaches from around the corner and a large, muscular man with a thick accent grips Morty by the throat, lifting him up andpinning him to the wall with his forearm.) Poncho: Who are you? Answer me! Where did you come from? Morty: Mmm!M-M-My-my-my Grandpa Rick sent me! Dr. Bloom:Poncho! That's quite enough. (Dr. Bloom walks into the room. He appears to be a blobof goo in a roughly human shape with glasses and a walking cane. Poncho glares,then reluctantly lets Morty fall to the ground.) Dr. Bloom:Morty, that's Poncho. (Another man and a girl walk into the room.) This isRoger and Annie. Morty:*staring sheepishly at Annie* Oh... Dr. Bloom: AndI am Dr. Xenon Bloom. (A speaker apparatus emerges from Morty's helmet. Rickspeaks through it.) Rick: HeyBloom, it's Rick. What the hell's goin’ on here? Dr. Bloom: Idon't know why, but the entire security system has shut down. And I'm afraidthe exhibits are unlocked. (Rick's speaker retreats into Morty's helmet.) Morty:Exhibits? [Trans. Ext. Haunted Liver] Dr. Bloom:Anatomy Park's greatest attraction, young man, isn't the music or the food orthe Pirates of the Pancreas. Rick: Watchit. Dr. Bloom: Itis first and foremost a living museum of humanity's most noble and ferociousdiseases. Morty:Diseases?! (There's a distant roaring noise.) Poncho: HeyDoc, I have news for ya. (Hepatitis A lumbers towards the group.) Your livingmuseum is officially a wild safari! (Poncho begins shooting at Hepatitis A.) Roger:Hepatitis A! Run! (The entire group screams and flees.) [Trans. Dining room] (The Smith family, sans Rick and Morty, are seated fordinner with Joyce, Leonard, and Jacob.) Jacob: Oh...*leans over and wipes some food from Joyce's mouth with a napkin* The food goesin your mouth, girl! (All laugh, but Jerry's laugh is forced.) Jerry: Aha... I'msorry Jacob, I guess I'm still confused about the precise nature and origin ofyour relationship with my parents. Are you like a—Are you like their caretaker?Is that what it is? Joyce: We cango into detail later, son. Leonard: Nowwait, there, there's no point to secrecy. Let's all live and die honestly. Yourmother and I have shared forty years of each other, mind, body, and soul.(Jerry and Jacob smile at each other, but when Jacob looks away, Jerry's smilebecomes a glare.) And when minds and souls are joined for eternity, and wheneternity is at the door, it's an invitation to let go of the body, and anopportunity to share and experiment. Jerry: Dad,please, what are you saying? Beth: Whateverit is, it's beautiful, Leonard. *glares at Jerry* And we support you. Jerry: Speakfor yourself! Because it, heheh, it sounds like you're about to say Jacob isyour lover. Leonard: No no no no. (Jerry sighs in relief.) Jacob is your mother's lover. (Jerryagain looks disturbed.) I watch them. Sometimes from a chair, sometimes from acloset. Almost always dressed as Superman. (Joyce kisses Leonard's cheek and the two hold hands,looking at each other fondly.) Jacob: Oh...*reaches across the table and puts a hand atop theirs* (Summer and Beth smile. Jerry stares, at a loss forwords.) Jacob: Jerry,this ham's got to be all you, right? It's in-cred-i-ble. Summer:*smirks* Happy human holiday, Dad. (Jerry appears more despondent than ever.) [Trans. Anatomy Park] (Poncho continues shooting at Hepatitis A.) Poncho:AHHHHHH! (The whole group rushes through a door before entering acode and shutting it.) Dr. Bloom:Hepatitis won't follow us into the respiratory system! (They enter to a set of doors under a sign reading ‘AlveoliForest’. Roger examines a meter near the door.) Roger: That'sstrange... *taps the meter* Air flow is down twenty percent. Dr. Bloom: Sothe brain isn't getting enough oxygen. That's why security is offline. Morty: W-Well,I guess we better check it out. (The group passes through the doors. As the doors areclosing, Alexander, dressed in a dog mascot costume, rushes up and passesthrough.) Alexander:Hey, wait for me! *removes the head of his costume* Dr. Bloom:*points his cane at Alexander* Put that back on! (Alexander pauses a moment before putting the dog headback on. The whole group examines the area.) Roger: If wegot up to the bronchial catwalk, we could look for blockage. Morty: *raiseshis hand* I'll go. *glances at Annie* Heheh... (Morty jumps onto one of the bouncy, round alveoli andclings to it.) Poncho: Don'tbe a hero, kid. Morty: I'mnot. I'm doin’ it because it's fun. *he hops from frond to frond* Poncho: *cockshis gun* We shouldn't be here. Dr. Bloom:Whatever you do, don't fire that thing in here! We must save Ruben. This is mylife's work. (Annie touches a growth of bacteria on some tar, whichsquelches, causing her to gasp in fear and recoil.) Annie: Ah! Dr. Bloom: It'salright, my dear. Nearly all human lungs contain a strain of this bacteria, butthe scar tissue... *prods it with his cane, seeing something has escaped from thescar tissue* ...keeps them dormant. *looks up toward Morty, who is getting closeto the catwalk* Morty! Get down! Morty: Whoa!*grabs hold of the catwalk as a fluid drips down onto it* Whoa! (Tuberculosis begins crawling towards him. He lets go ofthe catwalk and bounces back down to the group, pursued by the disease.) Morty: Oh!What are those things?! Dr. Bloom:Tuberculosis, coming in fast! Poncho: *raisesgun and starts shooting at the disease* Not faster than a bullet! Ahh! Dr. Bloom:*grabs Poncho's arm* No! Do you know what you've done?! [Trans. Garage] (Ruben coughs.) [Trans. Lungs] (The force of the cough lifts the whole group off theground, then they fall back down.) Dr. Bloom: Getto the digestive tract! He's coughing! (The group starts running.) [Trans. Garage] (Ruben coughs several times again.) [Trans. Lungs] (The group all manages to push through besides Alexander.Morty rushes back to help him as his dog mask is blown from his face. Mortygrabs a frond and reaches for Alexander's hand.) Alexander:Waaaah! Don't let me die! [Trans. Garage] (Rick looks down over Ruben's mouth.) Rick: Justtake a deep breath, Ruben. (Ruben inhales deeply.) [Trans. Lungs] Morty: You'renot gonna die! What's your name? Alexander: Myname is... *his hand slips from Morty's and he's coughed up* ALEXANDEEEEEEEER! (Alexander's skin and soft tissue are peeled off as Rubencoughs into Rick's face, getting some spittle, including Alexander, on Rick'sforehead.) (The group, minus the now-dead Alexander, escape therespiratory system. Morty presses the speaker on his helmet.) Morty: Rick!Ruben's got tuberculosis! [Trans. Garage] Rick: Oh, greatwork, Morty. *pulls a massive syringe form his lab coat* I'll just cure it, andthen— (Ruben's heart monitor flatlines. Rick tosses the syringeover his shoulder.) Rick: Okay.Well I can't cure death. This is bad, Morty. You're trapped in a dead man. Listen,if the situation keeps darkening, do yourself a favor— [Trans. Anatomy Park] Rick: —and hopby Pirates of the Pancreas. Obviously I'm biased, but, I think it's great,Morty. [Trans. Garage] Rick: *sittingin a lounge chair, pulls out a flask* It's a bunch of pirates runnin’ arounda-a-a- pancreas. We don't whitewash it either, Morty. The pirates are reallyrapey. The top priority is to get you guys out of there, but I'm just saying,if that becomes impossible— [Trans. Anatomy Park] (The group listens to Rick, all looking glum.) Rick: —please,you gotta treat yourself. (The group is headed to the digestive tract.) Morty: Geez,what's that horrible smell? Dr. Bloom: Youmean the Panda Express? *chuckles* Kidding, I-I'm kidding. (As he speaks,Poncho and Roger stock up on bottled water from the Panda Express.) The body isbeginning to constrict and fill with gas. We’re inside a corpse, my boy.Anatomy Park is doomed. Morty: Forgetabout the park, Doctor! How do we get out?! Dr. Bloom: Thedigestive tract is the evacuation route. Get it? There's an emergency stationin the colon with a ray that can enlarge us all. Morty:Everybody! Get to the colon! Poncho: Now I'mtakin’ orders from a twelve-year-old boy?! (As they walk, Dr. Bloom speaks privately with Morty.) Dr. Bloom:Morty. The scar sacs containing the tuberculosis were sabotaged. This disasterwas an inside job. Keep your eyes on Annie. She was written up several times byher manager at the churro stand. Roger: Intestinesare ahead to the left. Then the right. Then left. Et cetera. (Morty slows to walk beside Annie.) Morty: Hey,just so you know, I-I'm actually fourteen. So, you know... Annie: What? Morty: Nottwelve. Annie: Okay. Morty: Becausehe just said I was twelve. Annie: Oh.Good for you. (She walks ahead of him.) Rick (throughspeaker): Oh. Oh, Morty. Strike one. Morty: *slumpsforward* Nnn... [Trans. Small intestine] (The group travel down the small intestine in a raft,surrounded by animatronics singing ‘It’s a Small, Small Intestine.’) Animatronics:*singing* It's a road of laughter, a trail of food. It's a pathway that breaksup the fat in food. It's a tube in the chest and it sends out the rest. It's asmall, small intestine! Roger: It goeson like this for miles... Dr. Bloom:*excitedly* And then we get to the largeintestine! (A low rumbling can be heard.) Poncho: Shh.*shines flashlight* I hear something. (Gonorrhea rises up from the river of waste.) Dr. Bloom:*whispers* Don't move. Gonorrhea can't see us if we don't move. (Gonorrhea roars viciously and moves towards them.) Dr. Bloom:Wait! I was wrong! I was thinking of a T-rex. (Poncho pulls out a gun, but before he can fire,Gonorrhea capsizes the boat and they all fall overboard. They swim to the ‘shore’on the side of the intestine.) Annie: We’resitting ducks! Morty: Doc!Didn't you say the body was filling up with gas? Dr. Bloom:Yes. Why? Poncho: Kid!You're a genius! *pulls out a match* Dr. Bloom: Areyou mad?! Morty: *grabsAnnie's hand* Everybody! In here! (They all rush into a cavity in the intestinal lining.Poncho lights the match.) Poncho: HeyGonorrhea! How's this for a burning sensation? (He throws the match towards the disease, where itignites the gas and causes an explosion. Gonorrhea falls down, dead. Annie hugsMorty, who laughs.) [Trans. Smith family living room] (Leonard, Summer, Joyce, Jacob, Beth, and Jerry sit in asemicircle on the carpet. Jerry scowls and slumps. Leonard is playing a set ofbongos while Summer sings.) Summer:*singing* Drummer, drum, drum, drum! Drummer, drum, drum drum drum, Christmasdrums! Leonard: Oh,Summer. Sing it! Haha. Summer:Christmas drums being played by a boy! (Beth is clapping along when she notices Jerry sulking.She puts an arm around him.) Beth: Jerry,come on. This is what you wanted. Jerry: I getit, Beth. Be careful what you wish for. I'm being punished for taking youriPad. Beth: What?Jerry, let that stuff go, okay? I'm sorry I was a bitch earlier. Let's just behere. (Ethan walks up to the sliding glass doors and letshimself into the house.) Ethan: Ugh...Summer! Summer:*stands up* Ethan, what are you doing here? Ethan: I’vebeen texting you for hours. What the hell?! Summer: I don'thave my phone! I'm doing a human holiday! Ethan: Did youeven consider how that might make me feel? Summer: Howyou feel? Why is everything always happening to you?! Jerry: *standsup* Summer, do you have a boyfriend? Ethan: Yeah,do you, Summer? Summer: I don'tknow Ethan, do I? Jacob: *standsup and puts a hand on Ethan and Summer's shoulders* Jerry, no disrespect, butyou really need to connect more with your family, man. (Jerry stares at him, flabbergasted.) [Trans. Anatomy Park] (The group runs through another metal security door andhurry down a platform to a growth ray.) Roger: Ishould be able to access the backup generator to get the growth ray backonline. If it works, we'll be regular-sized in a few minutes. I just hopeRuben's not in a room with white carpets or upholstery. (Something roars in the distance, causing the area torumble.) Poncho: Whatthe hell is that? Dr. Bloom: Thesphincter dam. We built it when Ruben became incontinent, but it was notdesigned to hold a corpse-load. (The dam is clearly close to giving way. Roger keepsworking to get the growth ray active.) Roger: Almostgot it. Everybody, move inside the circle! (Morty notices a strange, black creature in Poncho'sbackpack.) Morty: Poncho?What is this in your backpack? (Poncho turns around to face Morty, giving Dr. Bloom aview of the creature.) Dr. Bloom:That's bubonic plague! What are you doing with that, Poncho? (Poncho grabs hold of Annie and holds a knife to herthroat. Annie gasps and tries to kick free.) Poncho:Everybody get back! Dr. Bloom:Poncho, you son of a bitch! You released the tuberculosis so you could stealfrom me? Poncho:*laughs* That's right, baby. A lot of people would pay top dollar to decimatethe population. I'll take the highest bidder. Al Quaeda. North Korea.Republicans! Shriners! Balding men that work out! People on the Internet thatare only turned on by cartoons of Japanese teenagers! Anything is better thanworking for you! *points the knife at Dr. Bloom* You pompous, negligent, iTunesGift Card as a holiday bonus-giving— Morty:AHHHHH!!! (Morty leaps up and grabs onto Poncho's helmet, allowingAnnie to escape. He punches Poncho repeatedly before Poncho pulls him off hisface and throws him to the ground, where Roger helps him up. Poncho laughsevilly, but stops short when Bubonic Plague bites his shoulder.) Poncho: Ah!Eh! Get! Get off! *he backs up and falls over the railing* Ahhhh! (The four remaining look over the edge as he falls to hisdeath. Just then, the sphincter dam begins groaning, almost giving way.) Annie: Youguys! Roger: It'sgonna burst! *urges the others on* Go! Go, go, go! *pulls a lever before tryingto run after the others but catches his foot in some of the machinery* My footis stuck! (Morty holds Annie back as she makes to help Roger.) Annie: No! Roger: This isokay! It's okay, just go! Tell my family I love them! They may be hard to findbecause my wife kept her last name and she made the kids take it too, so, Idunno, you could goo— (Just then, the dam bursts, drowning Roger in Ruben'sexcrement.) Annie: No! (Dr. Bloom seals the door to the chamber and Annie hugsMorty, distraught and crying.) [Trans. Smith family living room] (Leonard, Joyce, and Beth sit on the chair and sofa,Jerry and Summer stand, and Jacob kneels with Ethan in the center of the room.) Jacob: Let meask you something Ethan. Where's the anger coming from, man? Ethan: FromSummer being a total bitch! (Jacob takes hold of Ethan's cheeks and forces him tomake eye contact.) Jacob: Where'sthe anger coming from? Ethan: ...Mybrother... took me fishing once...in the bushes... *voice begins choking up as tearsfill his eyes* I can't... I can't! *covers his eyes as he starts to cry* He mademe feel like a girl! *sobbing openly* I'm... m-made me a girl! (Jacob helps Ethan up to his feet.) Jacob: Hedidn't make you anything, man. You are who you are. *gestures to Summer* She iswho she is. (Summer watches on with a sympathetic expression.) Now you go toher. Brand new. (Ethan walks over to Summer.) Ethan: Comehere right now! Summer: Oh mygod, I'm so sorry Ethan! *they hug* I love you! Ethan: I loveyou so much. (The two begin making out. Everyone claps besides Jerry.) Jerry: Um... Joyce: You didit again, cubby. Come here. (Joyce and Jacob begin to kiss. Jerry looks to the easychair to see Leonard has gotten up and is backing into the closet, unbuttoninghis shirt to reveal a Superman costume underneath.) Jerry: No!Stop! I hate this! (Beth, Joyce, and Jacob glare at him.) Joyce: Well,Christmas doesn't revolve around what you hate, son. Jerry: Wellthen, I hate Christmas! Enjoy being human! You guys are gross and lame. (He walks out. Summer and Ethan and Joyce and Jacobcontinue kissing.) [Trans. Anatomy Park] (The three survivors are in a small theater where ananimatronic Ruben gives a presentation. Morty and Annie have their helmets offand are making out, and Dr. Bloom sits a few seats away eating ice cream.) Animatronic Ruben: My name's Ruben Ridley. You're insideme right now, but by the end of this journey, I'll be inside all of you. (Dr. Bloom appears to miss every other bite of ice cream,probably due to his semi-aqueous form.) Animatronic Ruben: My story begins in the dot com crashin the early ‘90s. (The animatronic sparks, then goes limp.) Annie:*whispering to Morty* You can put your fingers wherever you want… Rick (throughspeaker): Morty, you wanna put it on mute or something? (Annie and Mortyboth look at Morty’s helmet, startled.) [Trans. Garage] (Rick is working on a computer, still talking to Mortythrough his headset.) Rick: I’mtrying to concentrate. (Jerry wanders to the door.) Jerry: Ah,Rick? Rick: *holdsup a hand without even looking over at him* Not now, Jerry. I’ve got much, muchsmaller fish to fry. Jerry: *entersanyway* I wanted to say I’m sorry I ever judged you. *leans on the ping pongtable, looking down at Ruben’s corpse* Right now, you’re my sanest relative. (Rick, who had been typing away, suddenly pauses.) Rick:Relative… That’s it! Relative size! Jerry, hand me a scalpel and a bundle ofdynamite! *into his headset* Morty! Can you get to the left nipple? [Trans. Anatomy Park] (Annie is in Morty’s lap.) Morty: Are youkidding? I’m hoping I can get to both of them, Rick. Rick (throughspeaker): Morty, I’m talkin’ about Ruben's left nipple! (The area begins to rumble and cave in. Morty lifts Annieoff his lap and both put on their helmets.) Morty: We needto get to the left nipple! Dr. Bloom: Thebody is decaying! (Bits of debris begin to fall from the ‘ceiling’.) Thearterial transit system is useless! We can try the service shuttle. It'sconnected to the skeletal system. That's why we call it the Bone Train. *toAnnie* Would you like to ride the Bone Train, miss? Annie: Ifit'll get us out of here. Dr. Bloom: Howabout you, Morty? Would you like to ride the Bone Train? Morty: Why areyou doing this bit? We’re gonna die. Let's go. [Trans. Garage] (Jerry looks on as Rick inserts a bundle of dynamite intoan incision on Ruben's abdomen. He takes a few steps back toward the door back to the house.) Jerry: Well, Ican see that you're busy... Merry Christmas, Rick. (Rick lifts Ruben's corpse from the table and heads outto the car, dumping Ruben's body inside.) [Trans. Anatomy Park: the Bone Train] Dr. Bloom:There's no autopilot. One of us will have to stay here and operate it manually. (Morty and Annie glance at each other, then look back atDr. Bloom. Dr. Bloom glances at each of the teenagers. Morty and Annie continuestaring at him.) Morty: ...Uh,well... Dr. Bloom: No,you're right. It was a dick move for me to even pause like that. This is all myfault. You go on. (Something approaches the group from a nearby set ofstairs.) Annie:*points* What the hell is that? Dr. Bloom: E. coli outbreak. Hurry! (Morty and Annie jump into the shuttle as E. coli swarmthe area. Dr. Bloom pulls a lever and the shuttle begins to move.) Dr. Bloom: Ohwait, there is an autopilot. (E. coli surround him.) WAAAIT! ...OKAY, NEVERMIND, I WANTED TO SACRIFICE MYSELF ANYWAAAAAYYYY! (As the train speeds down the track, some of the E. colihave attached themselves to the vehicle. One smashes the window of the traindoor and sticks its head inside.) Annie: They'rechewing through the doors! Morty:Euuuugh! *grabs a fire extinguisher and beats the E. coli off the train withit* We’re in the areola, Rick! Almost to the nipple! But we’re also in a reallybad situation! [Trans. Earth's orbit] (Rick flies his spacecraft out of Earth's atmosphere.) Rick: I'malmost there, Morty! (Rick lights the end of the dynamite bundle in Ruben'sabdomen, kicks him out into space, and uses a growth ray to increase Ruben toan enormous size—large enough to make Morty and Annie their normal sizes again,but still inside him.) [Trans. Earth] (Various people across America stop what they're doingand look at the sky as Ruben's huge, naked corpse hovers overhead.) Reporter:Reports are coming in from across the country about what appears to be a giantnaked man over the continental United States. We now go to Tom Randolph in NewYork. Tom? (As Tom speaks, Ruben's terrifyingly enormous face floatsoverhead.) Tom: Well, his eyes aren't twinkling, and his dimplesaren't merry, but I'm standing under a nose like a seventy-mile cherry! Reporter:Thank you, Tom. Let's go now to Eric McMan in Los Angeles. (Ruben's poorly kept toes hover in the background whileEric speaks.) Eric: We’vegot feet here on the West Coast, Bill! Giant feet, even relative to the giantman's size! And you know what they say about that! Reporter: Well,if the old adage is true, one can only wonder what is going down in the RockyMountains. [Trans. Rocky Mountains] (A lumberjack pauses while hacking down a tree, looks up,screams, and runs away.) [Trans. Earth's orbit] (Rick flies his ship toward the nipple.) [Trans. Bone Train] (E. coli continue trying to break in, with Morty beatingthem away with a fire extinguisher. Running up to the front of the train, heand Annie see that Hepatitis A is has damaged the track.) Morty: Oh mygod, the track! Annie: It'sHepatitis A! (As Morty tries to slow the train down, it flies off thetrack and straight through some of Ruben's soft tissue, bursting into thenipple. The train hits a bump, throwing Morty and Annie out. They look up andgasp.) Annie: Thenipple hole... (Through the nipple hole, they're able to see Earth asthe sun peeks over the horizon.) Morty: It'sbeautiful... (Suddenly, there's a crash behind them. Hepatitis Abursts out from the train wreckage and lumbers towards Morty and Annie.) Annie: Aw no! (The two run, and just as Hepatitis A is about to catchthem, Hepatitis C snatches it up and shakes it like felled prey.) Annie: Whoa!It's Hepatitis C! (Hepatitis C gives them a thumbs-up before lumbering awaywith its kill in its mouth.) Morty: Um... We...Did we have some sort of relationship with him? Annie: I...think they're just like that? I think they're just good guys. Morty: Oh.Huh. (Rick flies his spaceship into the nipple, landing itbehind them. Morty and Annie climb inside.) Rick: Where'sDr. Bloom? Morty: SorryRick... He's dead... Rick: Goddamnit, Morty, I ask you to do one thing! (Rick flies the spaceship out of the nipple and away fromRuben's corpse just before the dynamite ignites and the body explodes, sending bloodand gore in all directions.) [Trans. Smith residence] (Joyce, Leonard, Jacob, Beth, Summer, and Ethan allbundle up to go sledding.) Beth: Jerrydoesn't know what he's missing. Jacob: He'llcome around, Beth. Christmas is a special time. It has funny ways of bringingfamilies together. Beth: I dunno,Jacob. Jerry got an invitation to be alive today, and he rejected it. I don'tknow if our marriage will— (Beth stops talking as blood starts splattering the slidingglass doors. The whole group stares in shock as blood seems to pour from thesky.) Summer: It'sraining blood! Jacob: Oh, shit.find Jerry! Beth: Oh god. [Trans. Jerry's den] (Blood is raining on the window there as well. Jerry issitting in a chair, watching the news, when the family bursts in.) Beth: Jerry! Jerry: *standsand hugs her* It's alright! The TV says there's nothing to worry about. Reporter (on TV):The giant naked sky Santa has exploded. Blood and chunks of viscera are rainingdown on the country. Everything should be fine. (Family sighs in relief.) Summer: Dad,can I have my phone back? Jerry: Sure,sweetie. *pulls out the stocking and gives Summer her phone, then gives Bethher tablet* Everybody, take a device. It'll help you relax. Jacob: This isnice. Jerry: Yeah.*puts an arm around Beth and Jacob* I guess we really learned something thisChristmas, Jacob. Summer: No wedidn't, Dad. No we didn't. [Trans. Smith house] (It's no longer raining blood, but reddish chunks ofRuben are everywhere as Rick lands his spacecraft, parking it in the garage.) Rick: Too badabout Dr. Bloom. *Rick, Annie, and Morty exit the car* He was a genius. Theonly man capable of creating a new Anatomy Park. Annie:Actually, I studied Dr. Bloom's work. I believe I have the knowledge necessaryto create a new, much safer park! Rick: Whatabout Pirates of the Pancreas...? Annie: I thinkit was one of the most underratedattractions. Rick: Booyah!Hold your breath! (Annie is already standing under the shrink ray as Rickpulls the lever, shrinking her down to microscopic size once again, much toMorty's chagrin.) Morty: Hey,wh-wh- What the hell, Rick? What the hell, man? I liked her! I really hadsomethin’ going there, Rick! (Rick pockets the container holding Annie.) Rick: Yeah, soI heard. You dodged a bullet, Morty, trust me. *whispers* Puffy vagina. Morty: W-What'swrong with that? That doesn't sound like a problem to me! I dunno! Rick: C’mon.Let's get some stuffing, I'm starving. [Trans. Smith family living room] (Beth, Leonard, Summer, and Ethan sit on the couch, Jacobsits in the easy chair with Joyce in his lap, and Jerry sits on the carpet. Allare staring at handheld electronics as Rick and Morty enter the room.) Rick: Oh,unbelievable. We got a bunch of robot computer people sittin’ around with theirfaces stuffed in computer screens. (No one acknowledges him.) Do you realizeChrist was born today? Jesus Christ our Savior was born today! A-A-A-Are youpeople even human? What kind of Christmas is this? (Jerry looks at the audience and shrugs.) [End Credits roll] [Trans. Rick's garage] Annie (throughspeaker phone): Hey Rick! Rick, can you hear me? Rick: Loud andclear, Annie. Annie: Great!We’re also on with Alejandro, our Chief Imaginarian— Alejandro: HeyRick. Annie: NatalieJacobs and Chris Desiter from Microscopic Marketing, Zach from Organ Conceptsand Jamie from New Media. Rick: Heyeverybody. All: Hey, hiRick, how's it goin’. (etc.) Annie: So.Pirates of the Pancreas. Rick: Yeah,talk to me. Alejandro: HeyRick, it's Alejandro speaking. Um, so we asked ourselves internally, we askedourselves over here, “Okay, what does a pancreas do?” (Rick begins to lookagitated.) And the answer was, does it make pirates? No. It makes insulin, youknow? So we’re starting with a new— (Rick, furious, picks up and slams the phone, hanging upon the group call. Behind him, Ethan lies on a table.) Ethan: Sothose guys are inside me, huh? Like, building a park? Rick: Thoseguys are inside you building a piece of shit, Ethan! They're inside youbuilding a monument to compromise! Fuck 'em. Fuck those people. Fuck this wholething, Ethan. Ethan: ... Cool.And who pays me? [End of Anatomy Park] 