[Open on Morty carrying a bloody Rick in his hands on the surface of an unknown planet. There are floating purple crystals that are shattering, with each showing an alternate universe.] Morty: Come on Rick, w-we're almost there. Rick: Leave me Morty. It's the only way. [Two crystals smash into each other, causing Rick and Morty to fall] Rick: [While looking at a crystal where he and Morty are stabbing vampires] Wha-were-were we Blades in that one? That's fucking tight. Morty: Just stay with me. [Behind them, a creature roars and crushes a crystal in its tentacles] Rick: [While Morty is putting him in the ship] I'm scared, Morty. I can see the end. I'm a silly man. I'm a small, silly man. [Morty gets into the driver's seat] Rick: I'm sorry I got you into this. Morty: [While looking at a rapidly shrinking portal to Earth] Then how about I get us out of this? [The ship takes off, with Morty flying it through the portal just in time. The wheel comes off, the ship is on fire and an alarm is blaring. Morty shakes Rick, but he doesn't respond as the ship flies into Earth. Morty picks up his phone.] Jessica: Hello? Morty: I-It's Morty. From school. Jessica: Oh hey, Morty. What's up? Morty: Um, I just want to say that you're really great and I'm sorry that the timing never really worked out with us, but you're really great and I wish I got to know you better. Jessica: Oh, I mean, that's a lot. Morty: Oh, uh, yeah, sorry, I guess I just... Jessica: No, I just wish you'd said it sooner. Morty: Wh-What? Jessica: Yeah, I mean being nervous is sort of selfish sometimes, you know? Ship alarm: Life support systems failing. Morty: Yeah, that's a great point. Jessica: Well, what are you doing tonight? Morty: Tonight? Jessica: Yeah, do you, like, want to watch a movie or something? Morty: Um, yeah, tonight. Sounds great. [Hangs up phone] Holy shit! Holy shit! Come on, come on! [The ship is about to crash into some palm trees. Morty swerves and the ship bounces off of a palm tree and lands in the ocean] Rick: Ugh, where are we? Morty: We're home, Rick. I landed us in the ocean. Rick: The ocean? The ocean on Earth?! Morty: Uh, yeah, I guess so. Rick: Oh, shit. Holy shit. We have to go. We have to go right fucking now! Morty: What? Rick: You touched the ocean, Morty. Oh fuck! Shit! [A clam throne rises out of the ocean carrying Mr. Nimbus] Mr. Nimbus: Richard! You have desecrated the sacred treaty betwixt land and sea! Now face the wrath of your once and eternal foe... Mr. Nimbus! Morty: Sorry, who is that? Rick: My... nemesis. Morty: What? Rick: My fucking nemesis, okay?! Morty: Okay, but what was his name again? Mr. Nimbus: I am Mr. Nimbus! Rick: He's gonna say that a lot.