This article is a transcript of the Rick and Morty episode "The Vat of Acid Episode" from Season 4. It aired on May 17, 2020. [START "THE VAT OF ACID EPISODE" TRANSCRIPT] [Open Int. Alien Acid Plant] [Rick and Morty arrive on a Alien acid plant] [Transition: Inside the Factory (Bridge with many vats of acids under)] [Rick's arm behind his coat shoots one of the dealer in the head, killing him.] Moustached Goon: Holy Shit. Lead Gangster: What kind of psycho? His own grandson? [Rick sets up a device that makes them listen to their conversation] Moustached Goon: Guess he took your threat pretty serious. Lead Gangster: Yeah, but it just doesn't make any sense. [Morty shows a angered face, but Rick responds with the finger while the group are talking] Black Coat Goon: Well, he was a scientist. Maybe he knew more about acid, maybe it's like the most painless way to go. Lead Gangster: How could that have been painless? You saw that pause before the bones floated up. That has to be like five seconds of unparalleled torture. I can't get my head around it. I, I thought I'd seen this galaxy at it's darkest. This is going to take a while to feel normal. Mustached Goon: We're pretty good listeners boss, drinks are on us if you want to talk it out. Lead Gangster: Thanks, but what happened, it happened here. I don't wanna lose the moment. Black Coat Goon: Take your time, boss. We'll stay as long as you want. Mustached Goon: Absolutely, I got nowhere to be. [Morty pinches his nose, showing a sign of annoyance of the situation] [END OF COLD OPEN & THE OPENING THEME PLAYS] Lead Gangster: And then, little Tommy Flim-flam's running down the Hyperloop. His ass is on fire from Xenon fluid, but his AI hologram is fucking his own Pee hole. [laughs] Black Coat Goon: Great story boss. Mustached Goon: Really detailed Lead Gangster: Yeah, well I got a million of 'em.  All right, I think I'm ready to deal with the world now. Let's geet out of here. Mustached Goon: Should we drop our buddy in here before we go? Lead Gangster: Yeah, probably a good idea. [Rick prepares to open the trapdoor with spare bones. Mustached Goon: Should we use a different vat? Does acid lose its acid power the more it dissolves? Black Coat Goon: What am I, an Acidologist? Here grab that rat-like creature. We'll do a little test. [Rick grabs a bone, takes his knife and carves rat bones then gives it to Morty to hold on to]  Lead Gangster: Look, if you the damn acid, don't use a rat. Take that ladle, grab a spoonful and put it in the analyzer. [A ladle goes on the vat to take a sample, and Rick shoots it. When the Gangsters take it out, they shout in surprise] Lead Gangster: I'd say that's pretty acidy, drop him in. [A rat is thrown in to the vat, surprising Rick as he barely opens the trapdoor with Morty trying to close it as Rick shift his focus on the rat]  Lead Gangster: What are you doing? Mustached Goon: You said- Lead Gangster: Not the rat, the guy. [Rick catches the rat but Morty is unable to close the door, allowing the spare bones to release] Mustached Goon: Ohhh! [Rick tries to kill the rat but Morty pulls the rat to him then gives his air tube] Lead Gangster: Look at the size of the bones on that rat. Mustached Goon: Oh, how many sets of bones this rat got? Black Coat Goon: Look how the smaller ones are shaped, their like little cartoon bones. Like if you dreaw a bone in art class. Lead Gangster: Alright that tears it, I'm cancelling of the rest of my night and calling a bone scientist. We're getting to the bottom of this- [Morty goes to the surface with a rat and a lazer gun in his hand] Morty: Jesus Fucking Chist enough already! [Morty then throws the rat at them then shoots the leader to no affect, Rick then comes up, takes the gun from Morty and adjust the setting then kills all of them. Morty then jumps out of the vat and collets all of the red crystals to put in the suitcase then they madly look at each other] Morty; Can we go? [Scene cuts to the car with both of them silent and with Morty's arms crossed] Rick: The fuck is wrong with you?! Morty: Just admit is was a shitty idea! Rick: Having a grandson?! Morty: A vat of fake acid, are you dying of dementia?! Rick: How are you talking to me like this? Wh-whe-When did you get so cocky? Morty: Tonight! Tonight Rick. The night I saw you fail. Rick: Because you ruined it! Morty: It was pre-ruined! Rick: Oh was it worse than when I was a pickle? Oh-oh-oh, that's right, you weren't there for that, turns out kind of cool. Maybe there's a connection there Morty: Excuse me? Rick: What's that cool thing you did without me again? The awesome thing? I-I-I guess you wanted a dragon? *Does a chef's kiss  Unforgettable. Morty: God fuck you Rick: Timely too, you really got in that "Game of Thrones" fever right at the peak Morty: You trying as hard as you can to hurt me right now proves my point. Rick: I'll let you know when you have a point and the world will know whe I try to hurt you. Morty: Big man, big genius, big lonely drunk. Rick: Hey save some of these atomic-age beatnik zingers for your English homework, Bukowski. [They arrive at the garrage with Morty storming off] RIck: There's no such thing as a bad idea, Morty. It's about execution. [Morty shuts the door then Ricks works on his gadgets, until Morty comes back] Morty: No such thing as a bad idea except all of mine, right? Rick: Morty, wanting a dragon isn't an idea.  Morty: I'm not talking about that! I'm constantly pitching you ideas, Rick, and you act like they're not even worth thinking about. Rick: What, the helicopter lawn chair? That's just something you saw on TV. Morty: What about my video-game-style place-saving device? Rick: Oh my God, here we go. Morty: It's a good idea, Rick! A device that lets you- Rick: Save your place like in a video game but in real life so that you can try stuff and then go back to your save point, yes Morty, I saw it on "Futurama." Morty: Oh, so you don't do anything unless it's original? Rick:I don't do time travel. Morty: It's not time travel, it's saving a place in time- Rick: Oh my God, is this what you think I do? This is where the heavylifting happens in your mind? Do you have any idea how much fucking work would have to go into a machine that- Morty: Ah-ha! You can't do it. Rick: I can do anything, Morty. Your idea is not worth doing. Morty: You can't do it. Rick: Before what you're trying to do was called "negging," it was called "reverse psychology" and incels didn't incent it, Bugs Bunny did. Morty: You can't do it. Rick: There is nothing I cannot do. Morty:  A place-saving video-game thing! Rick: You're a piece of shit! Morty:  Just say you can't do it! Rick: I won't  Morty: You won't say you can't? Rick: Fuck you, Morty! Morty: Fuck you! Rick: Fuck you! [Rick, enraged, then angrily sweeps his table, including his tools then kicks it out. He then grabs a piece of old metal, a pair of goggles and a blowtorch then starts working. Morty just stares at him for a moment] Morty: So are you gonna- Rick: Yes, I'm gonna fucking do it! Morty: Rick, it's 3 am... Rick: You were right Morty sighs I failed, I can't make it. And honestly I'm pretty ashamed, that might be what I've been so aggressive and unfair about rejecting your ideas. Morty: Rick.. Rick: A vat of fake acid, Morty? Maybe I've lost it  Morty: H-Hey cmon you know I didn't mean it that way. I just think we need to find better ways to communicate  Rick: I'm sorry I just... lash out sometimes. I-I-I don't know what I do that, I am so ashamed of myself. Hearing you talk about the vat, it really opened my eyes. Like what the fuck am I even doing  Morty: Hey-Hey I don't like hearing this talk, you're a great inventor, we just got a couple of things to work on, let's start with inventing a little honesty, sound good?  Rick: Thank you Morty, sounds good. Or maybe I'll just kill you  Morty: What? Whoa Whao Whao Whao Rick  Rick: Because I fucking did it!  Morty: You did it!  Rick: I did it you son of a bitch!  Morty: How did you?  Rick: Morty do you want me to explain, or do you wanna go have fun  Morty: I wanna go have some fun! Rick this is this is thank you   Rick: You can thank me later, go nuts.  Morty: Best grandpa ever!  Rick: that's all I ever wanted to hear    How's it going? Y'know, it was fun Rick. Real fun. Y'know I-I-I definitely sowed those oats. But I think you invented a little lesson for me along the way. Living without consequences is great, but then I started wondering... what am I living for?  What am I building? If I'm always looking back, I'm never looking ahead. And then it hit me. We are who we are because of consequences. You can't live without consequences, y'know? You feel me?   [ Slurps ] Wow. That's beautiful thought, Morty, but, uh, no. There were definitely consequences. What're-What-What are you talking about? I mean. You did everything you did. It all happened. No. But the--the respawn button. The--The do-over. It's not a do-over. You just did it. Over and over. What are you saying? W-What did you do? I think it's more appopriate to ask what did you do? You see, Morty, you weren't saving your place and going back. I don't respect time travel. If "Ant Man an the Wasp" can do it, I'm not interested. It wasn't so much a do-over as it was isolating a moment in time, splitting your probable selves, and shunting you into to a near-duplicate, equally probably reality, transporting you into it at the moment of parallel determination. Pretty nifty, Time crystals are a bitch and a half, but the only real hitch is that there was already a you in each probable dimension So we have to solve for that. That's right you little bitch! It's "The Prestige"! You "Prestige'd" yourself! Rick, how many did I kill? You tell me, Morty. Every time you smell Jessica's hair, every time you relived a satisfying fart, that's how many Mortys you've incinerated, you greedy little junkie. Oh, God--even those times when I--Especially those times. It's over, Morty. Feel this. Take this in. This is God. Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh--Why would you do this? My hands are clean, Morty. I gave you a choice. You could listen to me explain, in great scientific detail, how it all works...or you could have fun. Did you have fun, Morty? Is this because of the vat? No. I'm sorry. I'm afraid it's too late for that, Morty. What's done is done, but it can end. The original split is still timestamped. It can make it so those Mortys never existed at all, make them purely theoretical. Oh, God. What do I do? I think it's clear you've done enough. Tell me how, Rick! Tell me how I save those Mortys! You live with the consequences. Those things happened somewhere, but you can merge the probable realities so that only one Morty did them. Just do it. Alright, lemme just sync these up and get you get back to your dimension. Wait, so--so you're not even my Rick? Then--Then why do you know about the vat? Every Rick has a vat! [ Slurps ] Well, Morty, I'd say we've invented a little honesty today. How about you? I don't deserve this. I was just having fun. So was Jeffrey Dahmer. Speaking of, time to pay the piper. [END "THE VAT OF ACID EPISODE" TRANSCRIPT]