 Abrodolph Lincoler is a genetically engineered human clone who debuted in "Ricksy Business". He was created by Rick by combining the DNA of Abraham Lincoln and Adolf Hitler in an attempt to create a morally neutral super leader. He failed and the end result was a cognitively dissonant and morally confused emotional train wreck. Biography:: Abrodolph Lincoler appears at a party Rick and Summer hosted, seeking revenge against his creator. Due to a miscommunication, Abrodolph Lincoler engages in a losing fist-fight with Brad. During their search for Kalaxian Crystals, Morty and Nancy, accompanied by Lincoler, are ambushed and attacked by an alien creature. Lincoler valiantly fights off the monster, but is heavily wounded in the process. He passes his seemingly last words along through Morty, revealing that he only wanted to be accepted by his creator, Rick. At the end of "Ricksy Business" it is revealed that Lincoler survives the ordeal. He utters "Revenge...", and is subsequently picked up and used as a sex toy for the Testicle Monsters that inhabit the planets' surface. Appearance: Abrodolph Lincoler is a genetically engineered human clone of fairly large stature. He is a combination of Abraham Lincoln and Adolf Hitler. He is a man with the top hat and beard of Abraham Lincoln, as well as the hair, mustache, and army fatigues of Adolf Hitler. Additionally, he wears an article of clothing that resembles a high-tech flak jacket or bulletproof vest. Personality: Abrodolph Lincoler is described as a crazed maniac, who is a cognitively dissonant and morally confused emotional train wreck. He speaks at length about the duality of his existence. While he initially appears to be a tough foe, he is easily beat up by Brad, later though being able to fight off a beast somehow. It can be deduced that this was due to his guard being down, or that he didn't want the party-goers to think that he was indeed a racist by fighting back against Brad. His personal views are a hodgepodge of Lincoln's and Hitler's. For example, while he believes in the emancipation of African-Americans, he also believes in the eradication of 'inferior genes'. He is neither entirely evil nor good. Episode Appearances: "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind" (pictured) "Ricksy Business" "Never Ricking Morty" "Night Family" (pictured) Trivia: Abrodolph Lincoler was briefly seen in a picture on the wall of Rick's bedroom in the post-ending credits epilogue for the episode "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind", before his first actual appearance. In season 2 episode 17 of "Cheers", Coach describes the salesman who sold him the antique scale for the bar as a man who looks like "a president, the guy who freed the slaves, except he wasn't nice at all" and reminded him "of that little guy in Germany with the mustache". This could certainly be the reference that this character is based on.  