Alan Rails was a superhero who appeared in Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender as a member of The Vindicators. His parents's tragic death in a railroad accident caused him to gain the ability to summon ghost trains. He was also Supernova's ex-husband, the couple divorced sometime in the past, possibly due to her affair and the strains of keeping their secrets. His death was caused by Million Ants, when a fight started of his and Supernova's affair.  Though Supernova separated them, she didn't stop her lover from killing him. Appearance: Alan Rails was a large muscular black man who wears an old-fashioned train conductor's cap with matching overalls, gloves, and a dirty, sleeveless greatcoat. The glowing green chain and train whistle around his neck allows him to summon ghost trains, which are capable of tunneling through solid rock. He is said to have a tragedy-stricken half-ghost, half-tumescent penis. Background: As a child, he owned a modles train set, and his father bought him a locomotive toy car every time he traveled for work. His parents were tragically killed by a train some point later, and by then, he had over 100 toy cars. Prior to Doom-Nomitron's attack on earth, Alan is the first to suggest leaving the monster to Rick as he was worried about the well-being of Supernova and the child. After Supernova murders Lady Katana, Calypso, and Diablo Verde in a drunken stupor due to her miscarriage, Alan is confused about why she told them about the miscarriage in the first place. Following Doom-Nomitron death, he becomes somewhat strain and broken due to Supernova's actions and feels like their days of being a heroes were over. He also attempted to warn Supernova that taking credit for Doom-Nomitron might haunt them if Rick finds out. However his wife ignores his words, leaving him feeling tired of the disillusionment. In a rare moment, he reveals a small train toyset he had bought for the baby. He talks about the train cars his father gave to him and how he wanted to be a different and hopefully better parent for the child, travel the universe together so his child would never feel alone. When his wife tries to comfort him saying they could try again. He heartbreakingly admits he doesn't have "enough coal" and that it was a miracle he got her pregnant, crying to himself. He stated he just wanted to forget. He, along with the rest of the vindicators later attend a celebration over Doom-Nomitron's defeat, where Alan is the only one uncomfortable with lying to everyone Personality: Alan Rails, being a member of the Vindicators, was a heroic man who protects planets and galaxies from the wrath of super-villains. However, Alan is shown to be very prideful and becomes annoyed with Rick's condescending behavior. He was the most prone to anger out of the Vindicators, as seen when he grabs Rick's collar. His personality is better explored in the spinoff series The Vindicators 2. In it, its shown sometime after his wife's affair with Million Ants, she told Alan the child was his. Something he was extremely happy about, he was also protective of her due to her condition. When Doom-Nomitron first appeared, he didn't want Supernova to fight out of fear the child and herself would get hurt.  Save for loving to use his trains too much, Alan was shown to be a caring and loving husband. He was looking forward to being a father.  Despite his wife's insistence they fight, he and the team voted to help other planets while Rick handled Doom-Nomitron. It is also shown that he becomes somewhat strain and broken after the events caused by his wife. Though he was still loyal to her after she caused Dorian 5's destruction and their teammates murders, he felt their days of being a heroes were over. This leaves him feel tired of the disillusionment. He talks of how he wanted to be a different and hopefully better parent for the child, travel the universe together so his child would never feel alone. When his wife tries to comfort him saying they could try again. He heartbreakingly admits he doesn't have "enough coal" and that it was a miracle he got her pregnant, crying to himself. He stated he just wanted to forget. Though he tried to go along with his wife and team's wishes of just "smiling". When he saw the memoriam for his fallen teammates, Alan looked regretfully sadden at having to keep the truth a secret. Powers and Abilities: Ghost Train Creation: By blowing on the train whistle around his neck, Alan is able to summon ghost trains which are capable of tunneling through solid rock. These trains leave behind a green trail. In addition to trains, he can also manifest a short section of railroad track, presumably for use as a melee weapon. Furthermore, he can also manifest ghost trains while throwing punches for added power. Despite the speed and destructive capabilities of these trains, Alan cannot use them other than to destroy things in their path. In other words, he cannot use the trains for more practical uses such as pulling the Vindicator's ship when it ran out of gas. Appearances: "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" "Rick Can Handle It" "Pro-Nouns" "Out of Gas" "Girls Night" "Kintsugi" "Little Trains" "Heroes" "Rick and Morty Issue 44" "Rick and Morty Presents: The Vindicators"  Trivia: Alan Rails is an homage and a parody of folk legend John Henry, who is also referenced by DC Superhero, Steel. His ability to form green energy constructs (i.e. ghost trains and train tracks) seems to recall Green Lantern, particularly John Stewart, another DC superhero of African-American ethnicity. In Vindicators 2, its revealed that Supernova was the one who didn't want Rick's help with Doom-Nomitron. In fact he and the team voted to do side quests and let Rick handle Doom-Nomitron. Something when in Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender she lies and blames on Alan. Either hinted she was mad at Alan for not picking her plan or just something to make him look bad. Its also hinted Supernova blames him for Dorian 5, an event she knows was her fault.