Aqua Rick is an alternate version of Rick Sanchez with aquatic features often seen at The Citadel with his Morty. Appearance: Aqua Rick shares the general appearance of Rick Sanchez, though with many distinguishable features usually acquainted with that of a sea creature. Like his grandson, Fish Morty, he wears a helmet, presumably filled with water. Biography:: Aqua Rick was one of many many Ricks who banded together to create the Citadel due to many enemies who wanted him dead. He would often bring his Morty along to the Citadel, including the time when Rick and Morty of Dimension C-137 were arrested and brought to the Citadel to stand trial. Aqua Rick and his Morty was standing around on the upper levels of the Citadel was passed by the arrested Rick and Morty escorted by Guard Ricks. They soon joined in the audience at the trial before C-137 Rick and Morty escaped. He and his Morty was present at the Citadel during the events of the fall of the Galactic Federation and the destruction of the Citadel by Rick C-137. The two aquatic humanoids were walking past the escorted Morty and Summer, who were on their way to the Council of Ricks. Aqua Rick would go on to survive the catastrophic event and help rebuild the Citadel. During the first presidential election on the Citadel, he had become just another Rick in the crowd who went to work and did their job. He showed up to Candidate Morty's public appearance outside the "Hard Rick Café" to show his support for the presidential candidate. He was presumably shocked when Candidate Morty was shot by Campaign Manager Morty in the middle of the crowd. He would later go on to vote for Candidate Morty in the election and bring upon the great change for the Citadel. He later makes a cameo in "Rickmurai Jack" in Rick C-137's flashback, where he appears on the wall with many photos of many Ricks belonging to the future Council alliance, including himself. Rick C-137 later went on a rampage killing those Ricks, but considering he remained alive many years later, Rick either lost him in his blind rage or the Aqua Rick seen in the show is just an identical character. Pocket Mortys: Fish Rick is a rival Morty Trainer in the game Pocket Mortys. "You think you've got what it takes to defeat me? Ha, good luck with that!" "This is the Rick you'll wish you had never challenged. Don’t be too hard on yourself when you lose." "Damn you, Rick! Look at my Mortys! They don't even know which day it is. Get out!" Appearances: "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind" (Non-Speaking Cameo) "The Rickshank Rickdemption" (Non-Speaking Cameo) "The Ricklantis Mixup" (Non-Speaking Cameo) "Rickmurai Jack" (photo cameo) Pocket Mortys Rickstaverse  Site Navigation: