The Bullies are three students that bullied Morty at Harry Herpson High School. They appear in Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat, with one of them having previously appeared in the ending credits of Something Ricked This Way Comes. Biography:: The secondary ginger bully bullied a young child at a playground and was beaten up by Rick and Summer as a result of his actions. When Morty was stopped by the lead bully that bullied him in the school hallway, the bully made numerous threats in regard to his nonchalant attitude, all of which were ignored due to Morty's overconfidence brought on by the death crystal in his possession. After touching the bully's face, he smashed his head into a locker then promised that Morty would die the following day. Both the bully and his friends were present when Morty arrived with weaponry he took from The Garage the next day. After briefly taunting Morty, the lead bully took a swing with a chain but missed and was carried up into the atmosphere in several seconds. The other bullies attacked Morty, but one was gummed and the other was sucked into a very small box, which Morty then picked up and stored. Appearance: The bullies are average-sized teenagers. The lead bully and one of his friends has red-orange hair, while the third has brown hair. All three wear a t-shirt and pants, while two of the three have the pants tucked into high shoes. Apperances: "Something Ricked This Way Comes" (cameo) "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" "The Old Man and the Seat" (cameo) "Amortycan Grickfitti" “Full Meta Jackrick” (cameo) "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer" (cameo) Trivia: One of the bullies first makes an appearance in a previous episode's credits, Something Ricked This Way Comes, and is a reference to "Randall" from the television series, Recess. The secondary ginger bully is a reference to "Buddy Revell", the improbably intelligent bully in the 1987 film Three O'Clock High. The lead bully appears on a milk carton noted as missing in the following episode, The Old Man and the Seat.However, the same bully has a cameo appearance in Full Meta Jackrick, chasing Marvin the Security Guard, implying that he is still alive. However, the same bully has a cameo appearance in Full Meta Jackrick, chasing Marvin the Security Guard, implying that he is still alive. The brown haired bully makes an apperanmce in the credits scene of the episode, Amortycan Grickfitti.  