 Davin was Beth and Tom's coworker at St. Equis Hospital. Davin was in love with Beth and he constantly hit on her and tried to seduce her. Because of this, Jerry (his colleague Beth's husband) was extremely jealous of him, despite the woman denying having any feelings for him. Biography:: In the Pilot, Davin was seen working with his colleagues Beth and Tom on saving a horse's life. He later comes back and interrupts husband and wife's fight, telling Beth how they did a very beautiful and passionate thing together, saving that horse's life like that. It's obvious that Davin was hitting on her, and trying to swoon her over, with the way he was being so poetic with her. In response to this, Jerry slams the door shut and says "Since we're fighting, if you ever have an affair with that guy I will come to the hotel room and blow my brains out all over your naked bodies." In "Rick Potion No. 9", Beth is called into work late at night by Davin and Tom to help him after a horse racing track had a starlight derby where there was a "seven-horse collision". After Beth and Davin save the horses Davin tries to seduce the woman. After sneezing, Davin becomes afflicted with the "Morty love potion" where he becomes obsessed with Morty (his colleague Beth's son). Beth then runs away from Davin when the man turns into one of the "Mantis-people" as a result of Rick's initial cure for the Morty love potion. Jerry bursts in the door and beats Davin to death with a crowbar, saving his wife's life. Appearance: Davin was a tall and muscular man with very tanned skin and a sculpted face. He had blond hair and a rugged beard of stubble on his face. He was usually seen wearing his work clothes, being a set of light blue scrubs, a white apron, and a surgical mask. Personality: Davin is a very skilled and savvy doctor, who takes his job as a horse surgeon very seriously and executes his surgeries with unmolested confidence. He's a rather macho guy, who makes less-than-subtle passes at Beth, who he attains a palpable crush on. His plays range from hitting on her to shamelessly enclosing her in a candle-lit room with him, despite knowing full well that she's married, which kind of makes him a bit of a douche. Episode Appearances: "Pilot" "Rick Potion #9" Trivia: Although Davin has never been seen or mentioned again, it is unclear whether the version of him in the Parmesan dimension is also dead. This would depend on whether the same event of Jerry killing mantis Davin occurred before everyone turned into Cronenbergs and were cured by the original Rick and Morty of this dimension.Same goes to Dimension C-131 but presumably dead. Same goes to Dimension C-131 but presumably dead. It has been stated by the Rick and Morty assistant, Tamara Henderson, on her Tumblr, that Brad and Davin, while presumably being written off the show due to their long absence after Season 1, will return in Season 3 of the show.However, Season 3 has come and gone and unlike Brad, Davin was completely absent and has been ever since, suggesting that he is, in fact, dead. However, Season 3 has come and gone and unlike Brad, Davin was completely absent and has been ever since, suggesting that he is, in fact, dead.  References: http://therickandmortyassistant.tumblr.com/search/Brad 