 Rick Sanchez of Dimension J19 Zeta 7, commonly known as Doofus Rick, is the least respected of all the Ricks. He first appeared in the episode "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind." Other Ricks claim that Doofus Rick’s home dimension is themed around people eating their own feces; on the Blu-ray/DVD commentary track for "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind", however, Justin Roiland has confirmed that Doofus Rick does not actually do the aforementioned action, which means the other Ricks are merely bullying him. Doofus Rick was a member of the Citadel's militia. History: Doofus Rick never married and never had any children, so his Morty was assigned to him from another reality where everyone looks like Eric Stoltz from the movie Mask. In his debut appearance, he befriends Jerry, and he seems to be the only Rick who genuinely likes him. He returns at the end of the episode, where he simply waves at Jerry from the street on a rainy evening. This is noticed by the main Rick who is amused by the friendship Jerry has with Doofus Rick and goes to call other Ricks about this. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption," many Ricks are killed when the Citadel of Ricks is transported into a prison of the Galactic Federation. It is unknown if Doofus Rick is one of the Ricks who died. Doofus Rick's picture can also be seen in a cupboard in Rick's garage during this same episode when Summer and Morty are arguing. It's also unknown if Doofus Rick died after the events of "Rickmurai Jack".  Personality: Doofus Rick is the kindest and sweetest of all the Ricks. He approached Jerry during the investigation at the Smith house and engaged him in conversation, expressing genuine interest in Jerry's life and abilities; perhaps because they were both ostracized and mocked by the rest of the Ricks present, the two quickly bonded. Doofus Rick's inherently kind and accepting nature came through when Jerry showed him his collection of R2-D2 quarters and asked for his opinion on them.  Despite being deemed a "doofus", Doofus Rick was able to create ovenless brownies with Jerry by mixing chemicals and substances. This hints that Doofus Rick only looks unintelligent, and is actually quite scientifically skilled and resourceful. This is further hinted, as he was able to return to the Replacement Dimension, suggesting he can use a portal gun. His interactions with Jerry indicate he may be more emotionally intelligent than other Ricks.  Pocket Mortys: Doofus Rick is a rival Morty Trainer in the game Pocket Mortys.  Appearances: "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" "The Rickshank Rickdemption" (Pictured) Pocket Mortys Doofus Rick Soundboard Trivia: Doofus Rick appears very similar to the severely inbred direct descendant of Jesus Christ from the comic book series Preacher, due to the bowl-cut hair, unibrow, and buck teeth.Both likely take inspiration from Moe Howard of the Three Stooges. Both likely take inspiration from Moe Howard of the Three Stooges. The Birds of the Doopidoo dimension have the same hairdo as Doofus Rick. While he's the least intellectual Rick aboard the Citadel, Doofus Rick is still most likely the smartest man from his original dimension (Dimension J19ζ7), as the Central Finite Curve walls off any realities featuring an inferior Rick. Despite serving in the Citadel Militia, Doofus Rick wears a normal labcoat instead of the militia uniform.  Site Navigation: