 Doom-Nomitron was a villain, who fought The Vindicators in their second battle. He was mentioned, but not seen, in "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender". He officially appears in Vindicators 2. Appearance: Doom-Nomitron is a gigantic shrimp-like space monster featuring a mostly purple carapace, glowing blue joints, at least two rows of sharp teeth, and a single eye with a glowing blue pupil. He is implied to be some sort of cyborg considering his brain stem is made of titanium. History: When The Vindicators assembled for a second time, it was to defeat Doom-Nomitron. Rick Sanchez and Morty Smith were not invited due to Rick's personality conflicting with the rest of their team. Lady Katana, Diablo Verde and Calypso were said killed fighting against Doom-Nomitron. He hid out on Dorian 5 and used his shape-shifting powers to disguise himself as an inhabitant of the planet. Because of this, The Vindicators decided to exterminate the whole planet to make sure they killed Doom-Nomitron. This became a great shame for The Vindicators who preferred not to talk about it. It did get brought up again during Rick's second "Saw"-like trial.  It was stated by Rick that if he was there they could have avoided the planets destruction.   In Vindicators 2, the above details are revealed to have been a press release the Vindicators put out to take the credit in killing Doom-Nomitron. The giant space monster was actually on its way to devour Earth with the Vindicators initially planning an attack. But they voted to take care of other missions before doing so, while entertaining the idea to let Rick handle Doom-Nomitron. By the time Doom-Nomitron came to Earth, a defense satellite Rick had around Earth successfully decapitates the giant monster with Earth, the galaxy, and Rick none-the-wiser. As for the casualties, it turns out Supernova was responsible for them. Dorian 5 was actually blown up by Supernova having a miscarriage with her and Million Ant's baby. As for Lady Katana, Diablo Verde, and Calypso, Supernova killed them in a black-out drunken stupor in her grief. Appearances: "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" (mentioned) "Rick Can Handle It" (mentioned) "Pro-Nouns" (mentioned) "The Dance" (mentioned) "Mercy Kill" (mentioned) "Little Trains" "Heroes" (mentioned) Trivia: His name implies that he's the Rick & Morty equivalent of Doctor Doom or Ultron. 