 Rick Sanchez of Dimension 79⊢⊇V, also known as Evil Rick, is an alternate version of Rick Sanchez who appears in "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" as one of the two main antagonists (alongside Evil Morty) and the mechanical puppet of Evil Morty. This version of Rick was originally the grandfather of Evil Morty, who forcibly implanted cybernetics inside Evil Rick in order to control him remotely. Evil Rick attempted suicide on at least one occasion, but was forced to comply by Evil Morty. Evil Rick would ultimately meet his end by a horde of furious Mortys his grandson had taken captive under his name, although by that point he welcomed death. Appearance: Evil Rick originally looked identical to most Ricks, but after his mind control, he underwent changes with his shirt being changed to black instead of light blue, his eyes had dark circles underneath, and his lips had a scar going across it. Personality: Almost nothing is known about "Evil" Rick's personality or intentions, and it is not clear if he shares "his" Morty's goals. According to Roiland and Harmon, Evil Rick was an organic Rick with cybernetic implants (as opposed to a full robot), and none of his words or actions were carried out at his own will; they were all Eye Patch Morty's doing, torturing other Mortys through "Evil Rick" in order to create hatred towards all Ricks. It is known, however, that before he became Evil Morty's puppet, he had a similar personality to most Ricks, being condescending with his grandson and insulting him back after his Morty turned on him. Evil Morty's control was not absolute, and when he had some control over his actions, Evil Rick had immense suicidal tendencies, even begging for death at the end of his life. Biography:: "Evil Rick", after another adventure with "his" Morty, was threatened by the latter, with that Morty asserting he would no longer participate in any more adventures, which Evil Rick scoffed at. Evil Morty seemed to relent although he managed to get Evil Rick blackout drunk, taking advantage of his helplessness to implant him with devices that Evil Morty would use to control him. The two began to murder Ricks and abduct hundreds of Mortys from multiple dimensions. The Mortys were imprisoned in a dimension of Evil Rick's design, with many of them hooked up to torture apparatuses so the "Morty waves" caused by the pain would hide from the Citadel of Ricks. In the process, "Evil Rick" attempts suicide, but his cybernetic implants prevent him from doing so, even making Evil Morty aware of the attempt. In "Close Rick-Counters of Rick Kind", Rick Sanchez of C-137 is accused and convicted by the Council of Ricks, framed the actions committed by the future-President Morty and his Rick puppet. Rick, however manages to escape with Morty and begins tracking the "Evil Rick" responsible down. After capturing Rick and Morty, who managed to find his dimensional lair, "Evil Rick" explains to Rick that he intends to download the contents of Rick's brain and subsequently kill him. While viewing the memories during the download, Evil Rick mocks Rick's apparent fondness to his Morty, stating that Ricks don't care about Mortys. The imprisoned Mortys broke free, having found the courage to oppose "Evil Rick". The Mortys over-powered all of his minions and bludgeoned Evil Rick to death, with Evil Rick urging them on to kill him. The Mortys kept beating Evil Rick's corpse until the Citadel's militia and the Council of Ricks arrived and calmed them down. After his death, the Citadel's medical examiners opened his head to discover that he was controlled remotely through the sophisticated technology wired into his brain.  It is revealed to the audience, but not the Council of Ricks, that the receiver which controlled "Evil Rick" was linked to a transmitter inside the eyepatch worn by "his" Eye Patch Morty, who had been literally using Evil Rick, and every word that came out of Evil Rick's mouth was actually "his" Morty talking through him. The former Eye Patch Morty removes the eyepatch transmitter and crushes it under his shoe in order to blend in with the other Rickless Mortys. A photograph of "Evil Rick" under the control of "his" Morty is later seen in "The Ricklantis Mixup". Appearances: "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind" "The Ricklantis Mixup" (photo) "Rickmurai Jack" (mentioned) "Unmortricken" (flashback) Pocket Mortys:  Trivia: "Evil" Rick's brain control technology can be compared to the Necro Soldier technology from Battle Angel Alita: Mars Chronicle.While it's most likely completely coincidental, it's possible that one inspired the other. While it's most likely completely coincidental, it's possible that one inspired the other. He mentions that he invented slow clapping in his dimension, though it's unknown if it's actually true. ↑ Unmortricken ↑ Unmortricken