President Morty, colloquially known as "Evil Morty" among fans and the media, as Candidate Morty prior to his election and as Eye Patch Morty while masquerading as a servant of Evil Rick, is one of the many versions of Morty in the multiverse. He is the overall main antagonist of Rick and Morty. He has a lot of theories surrounding him, whether he is actually a Rick or the first Morty Rick had. As of the season 5 finale, none of the theories have been confirmed. President Morty is the original Morty: Screen Rant, a popular Youtube channel that talks about movies and TV Shows, argues with this Theory: It is said that Rick had left his daughter for twenty years, just finally getting back to her after all this time and Morty grew up with no grandfather. In S01 E10: Close Encounters with the Rick Kind, we see Rick's memories, and it shows him holding a Baby Morty. Another photo is in S2 E5: Get Schwifty, where it shows Rick holding a Morty Baby, presumably from another universe. In the Title Sequence, it shows him jumping into a portal, leaving Morty behind with some hostile frogs. Also, some believe that we are shown most of the series the backstory of the Evil Morty. This theory also turned out to be untrue after the season 5 finale. Or is he Rick?: Another video by Screen Rant says that Evil Morty Was a Rick! That explains a lot, with the anger, ego, and Homicidal Glee. Since Rick usually drinks. It’s one of his trademark accessories to open his flask at any time to take a hearty swig. When President Morty kills all the opposing Ricks on the Citadel Table, he pours himself a glass of whisky, while no other Morty has ever been seen drinking anything stronger than occasional wine. This theory also turned out to be untrue after the season 5 finale. Or is he C-137 from the future?: Another more or less accepted theory is that President Morty may be the embittered, seen-it-all C-137 Morty, going back in time for reasons unknown. His advanced knowledge of the universe is non-typical for a Morty of the present time, and it were Mortys he captured that pronounced C-137 the True Morty or Messiah Morty. Considering that only C-137 is shown by the show to be truly unique and capable of change / independent thought, and that he is among the few Mortys that did observe actually working time travel (and survived), this may be the original plan for President Morty. In addition, most present time Mortys have a short, traceable record of less than few years of traveling with their Ricks (one Morty has changed five Ricks, and that was considered very out of the ordinary), while President Morty specifically mentions that he has lost track of time on how long did he travel with his own Rick. This theory also turned out to be untrue after the season 5 finale.