 Fear Hole Demon is the creator/promoter of the Fear Hole located at the Denny's restaurant and is the main antagonist of "Fear No Mort". Appearance: He appears as a slim human man with slick brownish-black hair and wearing a standard black business suit. He has bags under his eyes, giving him a tired look. Personality: Throughout the episode, the man portrays himself as a smug, sinister individual that represents the Hole, a small area in the ground that feeds on fear by manifesting the deepest fears of anyone who enters it. He advertises the hole as an actual scary yet positively beneficial experience to Rick and Morty, and others watching the introduction tape. During a confrontation with Morty, the Man seemingly grows more sinister, cruel and malicious, declaring that he finds Rick's fear of being happy more "delicious" since it's so rare. He calls Morty "dumb" and a "dipshit" for not understanding why his grandpa is afraid of happiness; that it's all just temporary for him and can disappear suddenly or slowly. Despite this, he also says Morty is tougher to scare than Rick, and is only keeping Morty in the Hole to keep feeding off of Rick's fears until he is killed. He torments Morty by this threat by saying Rick will end up just like Diane; dead, a notion he finds funny. However, it is later revealed that the entire confrontation, and the man's nihilistic view of happiness, is a lie, and that the Man, and the Hole's purpose, truly is what he originally advertised it as: a way for a person to conquer their own deepest fears. Once Morty realizes his own greatest fear, the man congratulates him on his process, showing that his earlier sinister attitude was just a ploy to push Morty to realizing his own fear. Despite the Man's seemingly antagonistic personality, his intentions are purely good and beneficial for those that enter the Hole.  Background: He encounters Rick and Morty at the Carnival of Nightmares offering them to see the scariest place in the galaxy. As they stop at Earth to a Denny's, where said place is located, he leaves the duo, saying he has to grab himself a "slam". Inside the Denny's men's bathroom, Rick and Morty find a hole in the floor and play a tape in which the man is in. He introduces the audience to "the hole", which feeds on the deepest fears of whoever enters it, and said person will then be free of that fear once they leave it.  He is not seen for the rest of the episode until later, when Morty decides to encounter him on the subject of the Hole draining Rick's lifeforce. He compliments Morty's ability to be a hard person to scare and sinisterly gives him a monologue about how Rick will slowly die from not conquering his fear of being happy, and the man refuses to let Morty free to keep Rick inside the Hole.  Later, however, it's revealed that Rick was never actually inside the Hole, and that Morty's deepest fear is not mattering to Rick and being replaceable. Once Morty realizes this, the man (through a fake-Rick) congratulates Morty on completing the process of the Hole.