 Franklin D. Roosevelt was the 32nd President of the United States as well as a minor antagonist from Rick & Morty's Thanksploitation Spectacular. After agreeing to become a guinea-pig for the Polio vaccine, he was mutated into a giant half-spider. He then became the creature that ate all the un-pardoned Turkeys underground.  Appearance: Franklin Roosevelt appeared to look the way he used to back in the 1940's on the upper half of his body. He wore a pair of glasses that completely cover his eyes, and he had an old-fashioned pipe that sticks out of his mouth. Franklin wore an old worn-out suit, undershirt, and tie. On the lower half of his body, he appears to have a giant grey spider-like body with razor-sharp feet.  Personality: After being mutated, it appeared that Franklin became a sadistic monster that only cared for carnage. Franklin often spoke some of his most memorable quotes, although he twisted the words in order to taunt his prey. Franklin also appeared to crave human flesh as well, wanting to kill Rick and Morty even after they had turned back into humans.  Biography:: He was used to test an experimental polio vaccine that was based on spiders, because they have 8 legs and therefore "walk the most". To cover up turning FDR into a spider mutant, the federal government faked his death in 1945. In an attempt to get rid of Rick and Morty for good, the government rounded up a hoard of turkeys that the two of them were a part of and sent them to an underground lair. Mistakenly, they sent The President who was also disguised as a turkey with them. When they got to the lair, Franklin crawled off the wall and revealed himself. He then immediately began killing the group of turkeys, prompting the three to run away. While the President was explaining the identity of the creature, Franklin shot a web at Rick and Morty, pinning them to the wall. Soon after this, they turned human and fell to the ground. Franklin then picked them both up by the throats, but just before he could kill them, the President jumped on top of his head and pooped into his eyes. Rick them picked up a bone and covered it in webs, handing it to Morty and telling him to use the fuse box behind them to light it. Morty did, and it caught on fire. He then threw the flaming bone at Franklin, causing him to burn up and die.   Trivia: During his segment, several quotes were made in reference to his Presidency.When first being introduced, he referenced his most famous quote delivered during the World War II era. The original quote was "The only thing we have to fear, is fear itself", where the quote in the show replaced "fear itself" with "me".Franklin Roosevelt's second quote referenced the New Deal, were a series of programs created to help solve the Great Depression.As Morty threw the flaming bone at Franklin, he said, "How's this for a fireside chat?". This is in reference to speeches that he would have broadcasted over the radio to American citizens from 1933 to 1944. When first being introduced, he referenced his most famous quote delivered during the World War II era. The original quote was "The only thing we have to fear, is fear itself", where the quote in the show replaced "fear itself" with "me". Franklin Roosevelt's second quote referenced the New Deal, were a series of programs created to help solve the Great Depression. As Morty threw the flaming bone at Franklin, he said, "How's this for a fireside chat?". This is in reference to speeches that he would have broadcasted over the radio to American citizens from 1933 to 1944. Rick mistakenly assumed that this version of Franklin was a clone. 