 Gene is the next door neighbor of the Smith Family. He first appeared in "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy". Biography:: The original Gene presumably became a Cronenberg in Cronenberged Dimension. After her boyfriend Ethan breaks up with her, Summer attempts to transform herself to be more beautiful with disastrous results. She gets blown madly out of proportion, destroying the garage and leading to a loud and heated argument between Beth and Morty. Overhearing the fight, Gene is concerned and asks if everything is okay. Morty angrily and rudely tells him to mind his own goddamn business, and Gene politely and silently walks away, without batting an eye. Gene is mentioned again in "Rickdependence Spray" when Rick is driving to escape Morty's sperm but he runs over Gene's body, who likely died from the sperm. Despite it, Gene is mentioned in Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion as a possible member of the team, implying that Gene either survived previous events or Rick mistook someone else for Gene during them. His survival is confirmed in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort", where he stumbles upon the garage while Rick is exploring Birdperson's mind. The garage's AI promptly tries to get him to give it a power source so it can get its own body, even offering sexual favors in exchange. Gene later shows up when Rick regains consciousness with some power supplies for the garage, only for the panicked garage to tell him off. Gene is presumably infected and killed by Mr. Frundles in Dimension C-131. The Parmesan dimension Gene is first seen in "Night Family" where he is walking his dog at night. When Morty accidentally blows up the space cruiser, Gene asks if the Smith Family needs help, to which Rick dismisses him. He is later seen watering his plants when Beth accidentally drives through them, narrowly missing Gene. He then asks why he even bothers. Starting with Season 7, Gene has been appearing more often, now getting more involved with the Smith family, especially Rick. Appearance: Gene is a bespectacled thin Caucasian man with receding brown hair. He wears a fishing hat with a hook fastened and a marsh vest with an orange shirt underneath, dark tan cargo shorts and white socks with slippers. Personality: Gene is a kind, mild-mannered, every day, average Joe. In spite of his neighborly nature, he is considered a nosy neighbor, and is yelled and cursed at, when just showing care or offering help to his neighbors. Living next door to him for a long, he has presumably grown used to Rick's strange inventions and their outcomes, not acting shocked by any of the weird happenings, (i.e. Summer rapidly growing to massive proportions), and actually shows more concern in the well-being of his neighbors, seeing their unhappiness as a bigger issue than any chaotic, off-the-charts destruction and mayhem, that comes from Rick's garage. He is even willing to tolerate property damage caused by Rick and Morty's adventures such as the cracking of his house's foundation after the Smiths' house was accidentally transported to and from the Testicle Monster Dimension. Apperances: ”The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy” ”Rickdependence Spray” (mentioned) ”Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion” (mentioned) ”Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort” ”Forgetting Sarick Mortshall” (mentioned) "Night Family" "Analyze Piss" (cameo) "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation" (mentioned) "How Poopy Got His Poop Back" "The Jerrick Trap" Site Navigation: