 Hammerhead Morty is one of the alternate dimension versions of Morty Smith who, with the other Mortys, rebelled against Evil Rick. He first appeared in the episode "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind". He appeared again, and was gravely injured, possibly fatally, in "The Rickshank Rickdemption", when a guard for the Council of Ricks used him as a weapon and a meat shield. After taking many shots for the guard, who was killed shortly after, Hammerhead Morty was last seen kneeling on the ground suffering from his injuries. His body was later extracted by the Galactic Federation. Appearance: Hammerhead Morty is a Caucasian teenage boy with the head of a giant hammer. His hammer head appears to be made of gray metal, and his face is located on the face of the hammer. Hammerhead Morty's hands, however, seem to be made out of human flesh. This is backed up by the fact that when Hammerhead Morty was shot, he had red bullet wounds.  His body seems to be rounded and pole-shaped, just like the handle of a hammer, implying that his entire body could be a hammer. Hammerhead Morty wears a yellow t-shirt, like all of the other Mortys. Biography:: In "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind", Hammerhead Morty was kidnapped by Evil Morty and Evil Rick Sanchez along with a great number of other versions of Morty. He was kept as a prisoner with the rest until the "one true Morty", Morty Smith, appeared and led a revolt against their captors. After defeating the seemingly evil Rick, all of the captive Mortys were transported to The Citadel. Hammerhead Morty briefly appeared in "The Rickshank Rickdemption", at the Citadel after it collided with the Galactic Federation Prison. He was used as a blunt weapon by a Guard Rick against several escaped prisoners before he died as a human shield for the Guard Rick. The "Rick and Morty Character Guide" mentions that his body was extracted from the ruins later on and an autopsy found nails being processed in his digestive system. Pocket Mortys:  Appearances: "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" "The Rickshank Rickdemption" (cameo) Pocket Mortys Rickstaverse Fortnite MultiVersus Rick and Morty Character Guide Trivia: Hammerhead Morty appears in the mobile game Pocket Mortys.  Hammerhead Morty is also depicted as a character in the Rickstaverse game's unlockable "Morty Tracts". Hammerhead Morty is a pickaxe in the game Fortnite. 