 Jerricky is a fusion of Rick Sanchez and Jerry Smith who came into existence when their minds ended up getting mixed together and deciding to become a perfect version of both in the episode "The Jerrick Trap." Biography:: Jerricky was the result of fusion of Rick Jerry and Jerry Rick which they decided to do in order to save the Smith family from Chuxly. After fatally wounding Chuxly in the resultant fight, Jerricky finally comforts Chuxley and shows him honor in the death he received. Morty, Summer and Beth show discomfort due to Jerricky’s increasingly odd detached behavior. Jerricky decides to leave the Smith family behind after declaring itself a separate entity, disregarding the existence of Rick Sanchez and Jerry Smith.  Smith Family neighbor Gene arrives with the rake and admits stealing it from Jerry, explaining Smith family‘s importance in his life. Jerricky, while initially seems to be moved from the sentiment however, drops the rake and starts heading out. Stepping on the rake, it directly hits the faces of Jerricky. The resulting impact shakes Rick and Jerry’s consciousness apart, ending Jerricky’s existence. Rick frantically tells Morty to hold Jerricky’s body down so they could now separate Rick and Jerry’s bodies.  Appearance: Jerricky is both a physical and conscious fusion of Rick Jerry and Jerry Rick. It has 2 heads of Rick and Jerry stacked on each other with an elongated central body and 4 pairs of appendages, giving it a sentient, arthro-humanoid like appearance.   Personality: Jerricky is both a physical and conscious superfusion of two already psycho-swapped entities: Jerry Rick (Rick's body with the mixed minds of Rick and Jerry.) and Rick Jerry (Jerry's body with the mixed minds of Rick and Jerry.). Hence it possess a complex personality. It shows traits of a complicated, stern and somewhat apathetic creature who is only hedonistically driven by the addiction of Jerry Rick and Rick Jerry’s adventures. But it does not show malevolent traits and seems to be on the side of preserving rather than destroying.   Jerricky does not view Smith family through the separate minds of Rick and Jerry but has its own, novel, collective intelligence. It addresses Beth as its daughterwife.   Relationships: Episode Appearances: Site Navigation: