  Jerry Smith of Dimension C-131, also known as Season 2 Jerry, briefly served as Rick and Morty's second Jerry. He was the husband of Beth and father of Summer and a deceased Morty. He was accidentally swapped out with a different Jerry Smith at the Jerryboree during the events of "Mortynight Run". He went home to that Jerry's dimension, where the divorce that began in "The Rickshank Rickdemption" and ended in "The Rickchurian Mortydate" never happened. He was eventually returned to Dimension C-131 during the events of "Solaricks", where he decided to take a shower while waiting for the rest of the family to sort everything out. While complaining about his situation to them when they returned, he released a cute parasitic creature called Mr. Frundles, which bit him and took over his body and eventually the entire world. Description: Jerry's relationship with his family after the exchange at the Jerryboree basically didn't change, and even became more stale. The family of a Jerry he got exchanged with treated him more harshly, mostly due to because he didn't have a divorce. Because of this, he's also snarkier towards the other Smiths, sarcastically comparing the coldness of the shower to Beth on their anniversary. Appearance: Jerry has scruffy, dirty brown hair, with slight curls. He has dimples and wears a dark green shirt, with a brown and beige stripe in the middle. He also wears light blue long pants and black shoes. Notably, he shares the exact same head shape with his daughter, Summer. At 5'10" (1.78 m), he is the second tallest member of the Smith-Sanchez family, behind Rick. Relationships: Jerry had a toxic relationship with Beth Smith (5126) because the divorce that began in "The Rickshank Rickdemption" and ended in "The Rickchurian Mortydate" never happened in Dimension 5126. Jerry becomes friends with Doofus Rick in "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind". At first, Jerry thought he was like the other Ricks but after learning Doofus Rick is not as intelligent or sarcastic as the other Ricks, Jerry starts to like him. Jerry even encourages him after seeing his counterparts bully him. Doofus Rick genuinely enjoys spending time with Jerry. Doofus Rick, unlike most Ricks, values him. Because of this fondness, Jerry even goes as far as to suggest killing his version of Rick so that Doofus Rick could take his place. After Doofus Rick leaves, Jerry is distraught, and yearns for him to come back. Later on, Jerry goes to mope and stare out of the window in deep thought and spots Doofus Rick across the street. The two share an unspoken moment, before Jerry's regular Rick spots the two and laughs at their friendship. Episode appearances: "Rick Potion #9" "Raising Gazorpazorp" "Rixty Minutes" "Something Ricked This Way Comes" "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" "Ricksy Business" "A Rickle in Time" "Mortynight Run" "The ABC's of Beth" (Pictured) "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri" (flashback cameo) "Solaricks"  Trivia: Despite being referred to by Rick Sanchez (C-137) as "Season 2 Jerry", this Jerry spent most of his screen time in Season 1. In the Season 2, he appeared only in the first two episodes. Due to the events of Solaricks, he is the second character to destroy an entire dimension, with the first being Morty Smith (or Jessica) in Rick Potion #9. Although Jerry did not appear in live action from the episode "Mortynight Run" until the episode "Solaricks", he was seen in the episodes "The ABC's of Beth" and "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri".