 Jerry Smith of the Prime Dimension was the original version of the current Jerry.  He was married to Beth Smith, had two children named Summer and Morty Smith, and was the son-in-law of Rick and Diane Sanchez. He was also the son of Leonard and Joyce Smith, and he had an Unnamed Uncle. Jerry strongly disapproved of Rick's influence over his son, Morty. Along with this was his jeopardized marriage to his wife, Beth, whom he found himself struggling to keep a hold of due to her close relationship with her father. Jerry resided in the post-apocalyptic remains of his dimension. After losing his wife and daughter, he encountered the original Rick from his dimension, who killed him after Jerry valiantly tried to fight him off. Personality: Like all Jerrys, Jerry always tried to keep the best interests of his family at heart, but his attempt to be the patriarch of the family was often misguided by his self-centered nature. This caused him a great deal of conflict with Rick, as his father-in-law clearly had no respect for him whatsoever. The key divergence in this Jerry's timeline came when Rick caused the entire human population of his dimension to mutate into Cronenbergs. Jerry was forced to take charge and fight, protecting his Beth and Summer and finally gaining the confidence to be the man Beth could be happy with. After an unspecified amount of years have passed, he became a much more cruel, sadistic, and wild man, turning feral when finding the portal gun and trying to kill Summer C-131. After the deaths of his Beth and Summer, he made his own way, gradually growing content, to the point where when his Morty returned to the dimension a few years later, he made no effort to keep Morty with him. His selfish tendencies manifested once again, however, when he tried to take Morty's things and run off (foiled mostly because Morty didn't have anything to begin with and was able to catch up). Jerry tells Morty that Rick was 'right' and that 'everyone needs to let go', adopting Ricks attitude in apathy and selfishness. He also refused the opportunity to relocate to another dimension for a better life because he just wants to move on. It's possible he was also disgusted with Morty's suggestion as it felt like the latter believes all problems (such as the family) could be "replaced". In the end, however, upon encountering the original Rick from this dimension and realizing he was planning something against Rick and Morty, he tried to catch this Rick by surprise and kill him, ultimately committing a rare selfless act before this Rick killed him. Appearance: Jerry has light skin, dark brown hair, a clean-shaven face, dimples, and an average build. Up until the events of "Rick Potion No. 9", Jerry wore a dark green shirt with a brown and beige stripe in the middle, light blue long pants, and black shoes. However, after the events of "Rick Potion No. 9", Jerry's appearance changes. His clothes are now ripped, he's sporting a red bandana, he has short facial hair, and he appears to be more muscular. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", Jerry's appearance changes again. He is shirtless, wearing ripped blue pants, black shoes and a green armlet. He also wears a necklace and belt presumably made of cronenberg teeth, and a cape, loincloth and hood made of cronenberg flesh, eyes and teeth. Since his last appearance, he has also become even more muscular. Jerry’s beard has also grown out. Relationships: Jerry sees his father-in-law Rick as a horrible influence on his son Morty, and wishes to have Rick moved to a nursing home. Jerry's life is frequently affected by Rick's shenanigans, such as the intelligence enhancer Rick made for his dog Snuffles, the Meeseeks Box, and the potion which brought about a disastrous change in the world. Rick makes Jerry feel insecure about his intelligence and his marriage, causing Jerry to overcompensate in his effort to prove he is better than Rick, though he's never successful. In The Rickshank Rickdemption, he and his wife and daughter display a deep hatred for Rick through their criticism of his scent on Summer and Morty. This hatred is so strong that they destroyed the portal gun after realizing that it was one of Rick's inventions and attempted to kill Summer simply for being involved with Rick. By the time of Solaricks, Jerry has more or less mellowed out on his view of Rick even telling Morty that Rick was 'right' and that 'everyone needs to let go', adopting Ricks attitude in apathy and selfishness. Jerry loves his son Morty and only wants what's best for him, academically and romantically. However, Jerry claims that Morty has some kind of learning disability, and tells Morty that he has to work "twice as hard" in life to keep up. Jerry tries to convince his son that he is just as intelligent as Rick, and gave his son advice about romance, despite the fact that his marriage was falling apart. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", despite his new feral nature, he, his wife, and his daughter still decide to keep Morty alive, even though he intended to kill the other universe's Summer, which shows that he still has some care for his son. However, in "Solaricks" after thawing out and losing both his Summer and Beth, Jerry had only felt contempt for Morty. Jerry steals from Morty and leaves a mocking note after setting him in a trap. However, he was willing to talk to him and accepted his compliments of him surviving the Apocalypse. He later scolds Morty for thinking him 'cool enough' now after leaving him with nothing, for abandoning his 'real' family, and later again when they were frozen. Despite Morty's attempts to apologize, Jerry directly says that he has already moved on from caring leaveing his son in tears. Even then, some semblance of care towards his son is displayed in his final moments, when he tries to kill Rick Prime upon learning that he was planning something against Morty. Jerry met his future wife Beth in high school and had unprotected sex with her on prom night, resulting in the pregnancy that produced their first child, Summer. Afterwards, the two got married, and three years later, the couple had their second child, Morty. Their relationship is very rocky and strained, since both of them missed out on fulfilling their dreams due to poor decision-making when they were teenagers. Their marriage is further strained by Beth's close relationship with her father Rick and her willingness to let the family put up with his antics. Jerry seems to still love Beth quite a lot, and tries hard to keep their marriage together, but finds Rick's frequent insults about their relationship hard to ignore. Jerry does not consider Beth's profession as a horse heart surgeon to be all that big a deal, but tries not to mention it. If Beth were to cheat on him with someone else, Jerry stated that he would commit suicide by blowing his brains out all over her naked body. After starting to live in a post-apocalyptic world, Jerry became much more courageous and loving toward his wife Beth. He also felt great grief upon reflecting of her death as seen in his talk with Morty. Jerry and Summer do not interact very much, but Jerry does care about his daughter. He is hurt when she neglects to tell him about her boyfriend Ethan, and is genuinely happy that his daughter survived the genetic disaster in "Rick Potion No. 9". In "Lawnmower Dog", father and daughter spend their time together arguing and watching their dog Snuffles slowly gain sentience. After starting to live in a post-apocalyptic world, Jerry became much more friendly towards his daughter Summer. After being frozen and thawed out, becoming less feral Summer and Jerry regularly go hunting for dinner, with Summer convincing Jerry to protect the alternate reality Cronenberg Morty in "Look Who's Cronenberging Now" on running into him. After learning of the Morty's Rick's plans to summon Old God Rick, Jerry attempts to take Rick's ship and use the Neutrino bomb onboard to blow up the evil Ricks, only for Summer to knock Jerry out, take the ship, and do so, killing herself in the process. Jerry felt sadness of her death, as seen in the later talk with Morty. Appearances: "Pilot" "Lawnmower Dog" "Anatomy Park" "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!" "Meeseeks and Destroy" "Rick Potion #9" "The Rickshank Rickdemption" "Pickle Rick" (Mentioned) "Solaricks" Rick and Morty #45: "Look Who's Cronenberging Now"  Trivia: Jerry majored in Civics in college. He appears to be left-handed. Jerry's car is a green 1973 Ford LTD Country Squire station wagon. Before the events of "Rickmurai Jack", he was commonly referred to as Jerry C-137. However, the real Jerry C-137 was trapped in the Dimension C-137 time loop as a child and is now a fully grown adult when Rick shut off the time loop, with Jerry's true designation revealed to have been "Jerry Prime" in the episode commentary. 