Jessica W. of Dimension C-131 is a student at Harry Herpson High School. She is a popular girl in Morty Smith's math class who he has a crush on. Much to Morty's dismay, she is frequently in a relationship with Brad, though she experiences difficulties with him and the two have been shown to have an on-again-off-again relationship which finally ended in "Rest and Ricklaxation" with Jessica breaking up with Brad. Despite her relationship with Brad, Jessica has shown interest in Morty at several points, although the two are never able to fully commit to anything due to Morty's sci-fi adventures getting in the way. This would culminate in Jessica accidentally being transported to the Narnia Dimension and spending an indeterminate amount of time frozen in place yet fully conscious. This changed Jessica's perception of time and space, meaning she could no longer connect with Morty.   In "Solaricks", Jessica is killed along with the entire human population of Dimension C-131 by Mr. Frundles. The Smith family manage to escape the dimension to live in the Parmesan Dimension, which is a dimension where the word "parmesan" is said differently and Jessica's experience with the Narnia Dimension never happened, meaning that version of Jessica can still connect with Morty.  Appearance: Jessica is a teenage girl with shoulder-length ginger/orange hair, a pale complexion, and a pear-shaped body. She has long eyelashes and prominent light-peach lips. She is about a head taller than Morty. Day to day, she wears a pale cyan hairband, a form-fitting, periwinkle polo slightly unbuttoned, a box-pleated mauve miniskirt, pale cyan mid-calf socks, and plain white loafers. In "Ricksy Business" when she attends Summer's and Rick's house party, she wears a dark magenta headband, a strapless, dark magenta dress with a sweetheart neckline, and a mini-length, narrow basque skirt cinched at the waist by a thin black belt with a square, silver buckle, and dark magenta, round-toe pumps. In "Big Trouble In Little Sanchez" when Morty takes her to a school dance, she wears a lavender headband, a halter-strapped, lavender dress with a sweetheart neckline and a knee-length Basque skirt (either unlined or filled out thinly with tulle layers) cinched at the waist by a bisected, paler lavender belt, and paler lavender, square-toe pumps. We also see her wear this outfit during Morty's flashback of their date in "Rickfending Your Mort"; only here she wears white, pointed-toe high heels instead of pumps. For all of her outfits, her make-up appears to just be black or dark mascara and pale pink lip gloss. Personality: As one of the most popular women in class, Jessica's part in the series thus far has been as Morty Smith's love interest; however, she has expressed some level of depth. Her most exposing time on screen is in "Ricksy Business," where she has a brief interlude from the party alone with Morty. This ultimately leads nowhere and Jessica remains a seemingly shallow character with plenty of potential for more development. However, there are scenarios showing that she is a well-meaning and considerably nice person. She never shows any contempt for Morty and even greets him warmly despite their different popularity status. She also helps Rick track down Morty to bring him back to his normal self in "Rest and Ricklaxation," and then shows concern after the process. Prior in the same episode, when Jessica gets turned off by Morty's annoying confidence due to his detoxification, she tries to get out of the date by pretending to receive an emergency text, but realizes she is being rude and instead politely tells him why they will not work out. She seems to consider abnormal things interesting, remaining surprisingly calm in various situations that would drive others crazy. In Pilot, she is impressed with Morty for coming into the cafeteria through a portal, and in "Big Trouble In Little Sanchez" when Morty tells her that tiny Rick is his grandpa in the body of a teenager, her only response is, "Cool." After spending hundreds of years in the Narnia dimension frozen in a state of conscious cryostasis in "Mort Dinner Rick Andre", Jessica takes on a distinctly philosophical mindset about her place in the universe and time. It remains to be seen how this has affected her overall personality as she is only shown in the immediate aftermath of getting rescued, but she seems to now think of herself as a "time god." This does not seem to remain the case however, as a flashback in "Rickfending Your Mort" showed her on an apparent romantic date with Morty with her pre-Narnia personality either intact or restored. Biography:: Morty Smith has an obvious crush on Jessica, but she doesn't acknowledge Morty frequently. While they aren't friends per se, Jessica is genuinely nice to Morty and seems not to mind his company, even going with him to the school dance and grinding with him in "Big Trouble In Little Sanchez". So far, she has only spoken to him directly three times. In the Pilot, when Rick Sanchez and Morty escape from Intergalactic Customs, the duo crash into her table. Morty and she have a brief exchange before Rick rips him away. In "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!", a simulated, holographic projection of Jessica attempts to seduce Morty in exchange for the recipe for concentrated dark matter. In "Big Trouble In Little Sanchez", Jessica questions Morty on his relation to the now younger Rick, and the two are later seen slow dancing together at the school dance. Jessica also has a few minor mentions in "Mortynight Run", once as a [foot related] thought read from Morty's mind, and a second time as a phase of a shape-shifting flower in the musical number "Goodbye Moonmen". Morty and Jessica's longest time spent in conversation is seen in "Ricksy Business" immediately after Jessica is seen irritated by Brad's actions. Morty comforts her, then proceeds to take her on a tour of Rick's garage. He begins to tell her of his adventures when they are interrupted by Squanchy. Jessica is seen leaving with Brad to attend the after party together. In the post-ending credits epilogue for the episode "The Ricks Must Be Crazy", Jessica made a non-speaking cameo in Mr. Goldenfold's class, looking back in shock when Morty transformed into a car. In the third season episode "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy", Morty insists that any future daughters he has will be attractive because Jessica will be their mother, proving once again his hopeless crush on her. Jessica gets a major role in "Rest and Ricklaxation." She breaks up with Brad and Morty wants to use this opportunity to ask her out; however, due to his insecurities, he almost completely blows it. He is saved when Rick interrupts and drags Morty into an exhausting adventure which causes both to decide to take a break. As a result, Morty is detoxified while on a vacation afterwards, which removes his insecurities. Afterward, Morty finally asks Jessica for a date, but after becoming intimidated by his newfound confidence she eventually leaves saying that it's not going to work out and that "he'd get bored with her," though thanks to Morty's new attitude he is unfazed by the matter. Jessica later helps Rick to track down Morty so Rick can inject Morty with his toxins. She denies that she did this out of any deep affection for Morty, saying that she only did it for Rick's sake, which causes Rick to insult her and drives the two to fight over who really wanted the old Morty back. Jessica is later seen talking with her friends who tease her about going out with Brad again, which a disappointed Morty hears. Before he can get dragged off on another adventure, however, Jessica calls out to him to let him know that she is glad to have him back. In the fourth season episode "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat", Jessica becomes a major focus for Morty's story branch, in which Morty becomes motivated to follow a path toward a future where he sees that he dies peacefully with Jessica telling him that she loves him – a future seen while holding a Forbodulon Prime death crystal. The cold opening shows a photo of her on Morty's smartphone from her Instagram page, looking somewhat vapid in a selfie at her grandmother's wake to show off the tacky Margaritaville souvenir necklace her grandmother left to her. After Morty goes on a rampage wreaking utter havoc on the town the next day and getting away with it to ensure his perceived best destiny, Jessica invites Morty out to see her and her friends' skinny dipping, but he declines saying "let's meet together again in our forties", following the visions the death crystal gives him, leaving her somewhat bewildered at his actions, yet still mildly admiring of him. At the epilogue of the episode, it is revealed that the vision is the culmination of Morty going into a future where in fact, he never hooks up with Jessica, and dies alone, where Jessica has pursued a career in hospice care and follows her dreams of comforting those passing on alone at their last moments, leaving an overhearing Morty feeling stupid for being lead on by the clairvoyant predictions of the death crystal he used. In the fifth season premiere "Mort Dinner Rick Andre", Morty calls Jessica to admit his feelings for her when he thinks he is about to die, remarking the timing never worked out. To his shock, Jessica replies that she wished he told her sooner and suggests they watch a movie that night. Morty quickly agrees, but their date night comes into conflict with Rick's dinner with Mr. Nimbus. Morty's repeated attempts to get wine for Jessica from an alternate dimension with a faster timeline (a "Narnia" dimension) initially put her off, thinking he's busy, but during a lull, in the night the two finally kiss for the first time. However, when the other dimension sends in a soldier to kill Morty, Jessica's attempt to interfere leads to her getting sucked into the dimension, where she is frozen in time as a lure for Morty. After she is rescued with the help of Rick and Mr. Nimbus, Morty tries to continue their date. However, due to spending hundreds of years in a state of conscious cryostasis in this dimension, Jessica comes out with a changed perspective on life and the universe and tells a crestfallen Morty that they should just be friends. She walks off into the night, though not before loudly rejecting a guy who tries to pick her up by cursing him out and telling him she's a time god. She does not appear in "Solaricks" but is certainly killed along with the rest of the world by "Mr. Frundles". The Smith family then move to the Parmesan Dimension where the events of "Mort Dinner Rick Andre" never happened, as proven in "Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie". Relationships: At the beginning of the series, Jessica was almost entirely oblivious to Morty's existence, only knowing his name at first sight of him. The two had brief exchanges over the season, most sparked by Rick in some way or another. In the Season 1 finale, "Ricksy Business," he came close to confessing his feelings to her, but was interrupted by Squanchy. Nothing is known of the details of the pair's relationship; however, the latest appearance of the two was in the episode "Big Trouble In Little Sanchez", where they were seen slow dancing together, as a couple attending the school dance. Their relationship is a major plot point of "Rest and Ricklaxation." Morty wants to ask her for a date when he finds out that Jessica is now single. He eventually can't say a word due to his insecurities and is dragged to another adventure by Rick. After the adventure proves to be very long and exhausting (and resulting in their closest brush with death), Rick and Morty go to an intergalactic day spa and get their toxins removed from their bodies. This includes all of Morty's insecurities, making him confident enough to finally ask Jessica for a date. Jessica seems not to like Morty's new persona and leaves. Morty is then seen hanging out with different women. She later calls Morty and tells him she misses him. This call helps Rick track down Morty and inject him with his toxins, returning Morty to normal. By the end of the episode, she is talking about going out to dinner with Brad, making Morty depressed. She cheers Morty up when she tells him it's good to have him back. The episode suggests that she might have started to genuinely care for Morty, at least as a friend. In "Mort Dinner Rick Andre", Morty calls Jessica when he thinks he will die and tells her she's really great and he wishes he got to know her better but she shocks Morty by saying she wished he'd said something sooner and suggests they watch a movie that night as a date. Despite multiple setbacks, the date leads to the two of them kissing, although any progress in their relationship is ruined when Jessica protects Morty from an alien intruder and as a consequence, is accidentally sucked into an alternate dimension with a faster timeline and left frozen in stasis while remaining fully conscious for hundreds of years. She comes out of it deciding that she and Morty should just be friends. Morty sadly says that he gets it and guesses that they missed their moment but she then replies that there will be more moments for both of them in the future implying that their interactions with each other will continue. This was confirmed in "Rickfending Your Mort" (which happens in the Parmesan Dimension) as a flashback showed her and Morty on an apparent romantic date but with the implication that the events of "Mort Dinner Rick Andre" never happened. The conclusion to this date is not shown. Jessica and Brad are assumed to be dating throughout most of the series; however, Jessica is blatantly unhappy in this relationship. This illustrates a level of depth to her character even early on in the story. They fight consistently throughout the series and Jessica was last seen romantically with Morty. It can be assumed that Brad and Jessica have had a falling out by this point; however, no information is given. It is revealed in "Rest and Ricklaxation" that they have broken up. Jessica has had a very few brief connections with Rick over the course of the series so far. In "Ricksy Business", she was intrigued by Rick's inventions. In "Big Trouble In Little Sanchez", much like all the other students, was amazed at how cool of a student Rick had become as "Tiny Rick." She helps Rick to find Morty in "Rest and Ricklaxation." She denies that she was extremely worried about Morty, and claims that she only did it because Rick was drunk-dialing her into it, though this seems unconvincing as Rick and Jessica squabble about who wanted to find Morty, suggesting that her persona might be similar to Rick's to some degree. Grace pushes Jessica to do things to make her popular; she cares a great deal about how the rest of the school sees her and Jessica. She does not appear to be a good influence on Jessica, as she convinces Jessica to act differently solely so people will look up to and like her. Jessica likes her because she thinks she has good advice and she looks at the girl as someone from whom she can seek guidance. In reality, Jessica doesn't care about being popular: she only acts the way she does because her friend encourages her to do so. (To be updated later.) Episode Appearances: "Ricksy Business" "Mortynight Run" (non-speaking cameo) "The Ricks Must Be Crazy" (non-speaking cameo) "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez" "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy" (mentioned) "Rest and Ricklaxation" "The Ricklantis Mixup" (mentioned) "Morty's Mind Blowers" (mentioned) "The ABC's of Beth" (non-speaking cameo) "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" "The Vat of Acid Episode" "Mort Dinner Rick Andre"  Ex Machina Blade Runner Trivia: Jessica vaguely resembles her voice actress Kari Wahlgren. She also shares the same first initial of her last name with her. In the episode "Mortynight Run", it is hinted that Morty Smith has a foot fetish as Fart's telepathic ability reveals Morty's subconscious thoughts at the time were of "Jessica's feet." In the episode "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy", it is revealed that Morty is so infatuated with Jessica that he believes they will one day have at least one child together and that, should they have a daughter, she will be very attractive due to Jessica's genes. In the episode "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat", Jessica's Instagram profile name is shown to be "YAAAAAASsica❤", an amalgamation of her name with the slang term "yaaas". Jessica appears to have an interest in working as a nurse or in hospice when she's an adult, as shown in "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat." In addition, a poster bearing the image of a pink caduceus staff (the symbol of medicine and healthcare services), is shown in her room in the episode "Mort Dinner Rick Andre." Jessica spends an indeterminate though lengthy period of time frozen in a state of conscious cryostasis during the episode "Mort Dinner Rick Andre," which appears to have caused a shift in her temperament and perception of the world. However, her appearance in "Rickfending Your Mort" appears to suggest that for one reason or another, she has returned to her pre-Narnia personality. In "Mort Dinner Rick Andre," Jessica's line questioning: "Was I just the object in another story? Is that all I ever was? Could I be more?" is likely a comical meta-reference to the fact that the inclusion of Jessica's character in the show revolves entirely around her position as Morty's crush- a common trope in TV and media. Her longest episode was in "Mort Dinner Rick Andre" In Jessica's quote included in the "Rick and Morty Character Guide", she cites a portion of Sylvia Plath's "The Bell Jar": "I saw my life branching out before me like the green fig tree in the story".  Ricksy Business: Big Trouble in Little Sanchez: Rest and Ricklaxation:  References: ↑ Rickfending Your Mort ↑ Rick and Morty Character Guide, pg. 114