 Krombopulos Michael was a Gromflomite assassin that purchased weapons from Rick Sanchez. He was also the husband of Amy. Rick refers to him as his best customer. His final purchase was an anti-matter handgun, to be used to kill Fart, a gaseous target that couldn't be destroyed with normal weapons. When he meets Rick at a garage to purchase the gun, Krombopulos introduces himself to Morty, giving him a business card. After breaking into the facility used to hold his target, he was crushed to death by Morty after falling asleep while piloting his grandfather's spaceship. That said, there are infinite universes in the show's canon, so he is alive in at least one other universe/dimension. Prior to his death, Krombopulos customarily handed out business cards that indicated his occupation, location, Twitter and Facebook accounts, and the hashtag #KMichaelKills.  Trivia: Many aspects of Krombopulos Michael resemble the Rodian bounty hunter Greedo from the Star Wars franchise, such as his antennae, mouth, insect-like eyes, green skin and Mohawk. The show's official art book, The Art of Rick and Morty, reveals that Krombopulous Michael is an upper class Gromflomite, which explains his body structure and ability to wear clothes. It also reveals that like, Rick, Birdperson and Squanchy, Michael is also a rebel against the Galactic Federation. Krombopulos Michael also makes an appearance in the virtual reality game, Virtual Rick-ality, where his business card can be seen on Rick's desk. Krombopulos Michael  revealed in the first issue of his spin off comic to be bisexual.  This is shown through the revelation that he had an ex boyfriend who left him because of Michael’s love for killing before he met and married Amy. Krombopulos Michael is referenced in Season 7, Episode 1, when Rick says "Here I go pillin' again" before taking a fading pill. This is a reference to Krombopulos Michael's "Here I go killin' again." Krombopulos Michael also appears as an epic rarity headgear and uniform for the operator Thermite in the video game Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Siege. Along with this, the Anti-Matter Blaster which he bought from Rick is a weapon skin for Thermite’s 5.7 USG pistol and the Love Locket charm which is the locket of Amy shown in Mortynight Run. There are also skins of Rick, Morty and Mr. Meeseeks. Merchandise: References ↑ "Oh good job Morty, you killed my best customer, but you saved a mind-reading fart."-Rick Mortynight Run