 Lawyer Observer is a supporting character in "Rickfending Your Mort". He was summoned to defend the actions of Rick and Morty in trial. Personality: As the public defender of Rick and Morty, he was the only Observer to not intentionally antagonize the duo, instead trying to justify their actions. However, he was not very helpful, as the clips he played only revealed how awful Rick and Morty usually are. History: The Observers put Rick and Morty on trial after they accidentally killed the Audit Observer. Rick claims that he and Morty already did something like this before. An observer shows up, introduces himself as the lawyer of Rick and Morty, and uses his powers to replay the Giant Court scene in order to confirm Rick’s words. The prosecutor sees this as proof that the duo tend to repeat their mistakes. The prosecutor also claims that Rick and Morty tend to be dumb during their experiments, but the lawyer defends them by stating that the whole purpose of experimentation is to learn through trial and error, and replays a moment of Rick and Morty in the Sematary as an example. Rick starts to wonder what even is the point of the trial, which the Judge clarifies saying it is to determine if they are good or evil. Morty claims that they at least don't intentionally hurt people or murder for fun. The Lawyer tries to help by replaying a moment where Rick murders Space Jam Rick and Morty for fun, but that only worsens their case. To allow him to defend himself, the Observers allowed Rick to access their technology, and he used it to play a clip of him being a leg, much to their annoyance. The Judge condemns Rick and Morty to execution, but Rick is able to cancel it as he still had control over the courtroom. Rick claims that, in terms of morality, the Observers are no better than him, and uses his device to play clips of them refusing to help a drowning alien, selling pirated movies and paying homeless aliens to fight. The Judge claims that only some of them are bad, and one of them brings up that the Judge slept with Tom’s wife, something he proudly admits while taunting Tom. Tom angrily attacks and kills the Judge, prompting a fight between all Observers. Rick and Morty use this as an opportunity to escape. The lawyer is last seen being thrown across the room by the prosecutor. It’s unknown if he survived.