 Madame President is the leader of 41-Kepler B’s government. After the discovery of suicide spaghetti, she turned it into interplanetary marketing at the cost of her citizens. Personality: As the President, she was  responsible for making her planet as depressing and lethal as possible so that more suicide spaghetti would be made. She had little care for her citizens and instead focused on making money and preventing the economy from crashing, although she was open to less unethical options provided that they didn’t ruin her plans. She and Rick were the only ones who didn’t vomit after watching the life montage of Fred Bunks. History: Morty went to Lawrence’s funeral to confess his action of eating the spaghetti produced from his corpse. Madame President heard of the incident and brought Morty to taste test spaghetti from Tanya, who willingly took her own life. The President shared her plan of legalizing euthanasia in favor of producing more spaghetti.  She founded the brand “MortyO’s Ethical Spaghetti’ and started selling cans of spaghetti to all neighboring planets. She also turned the planet into a depressing dystopia to incentivate suicide. Rick and Morty heard of this and held a meeting with the President. She stated that, if the supply chain stops, the global economy will collapse and ruin everyone’s lives. Rick and Morty started to discuss ethical alternatives for producing the same spaghetti. The duo tried making clones of spaghetti people, but they escaped and killed each other without producing spaghetti. Rick then created a subspecies of spaghetti people known as Torsos, but they went extinct after the factory making them was blown up by protesters. 41-Kepler B was then invaded by several aliens who were angry at the shortage of spaghetti. Morty proposes the idea of synthesizing the spaghetti, but the President mentions that there’s only one euthanasia candidate left. As a final solution, Rick made a planet-wide broadcast showing the life and death of Fred Bunks. Everyone, including the invading aliens, lost their appetite for spaghetti after watching it, and the trade stopped for good. References ↑ Pocket Mortys 