 The Memory Parasites are a race of aliens who invade and conquer planets by shapeshifting into the forms of various beings such as humans, aliens, animals, historical figures etc. and taking up a persona of them. History: When alien parasites arrive on a planet, they implant people's minds with false memories of invented characters being people such as friends, family members, etc. Once they have multiplied enough, they use this to take over the planet and enslave the race. They invaded Earth and confronted the Smith family.  As Morty discovered, the parasites only implant perfect, friendly and happy memories into their victims. This means if someone cannot remember any bad memories of another person, the latter could be a parasite. They also seem capable of suppressing other memories, particularly one's contradictory to memories they have implanted. One of the characters created, Sleepy Gary, replaces Jerry as Beth's husband, and for this to work any memories of Jerry as Beth's husband would need to be suppressed. When Rick threatened to shoot Summer, Sleepy Gary stood in the way, shouting 'That is my daughter.'. Forms: Uncle Steve Cousin Nicky Mr. Beauregard Frankenstein's Monster Sleepy Gary Photography Raptor Pencilvester Tinkles Hamurai Amish Cyborg Reverse Giraffe Ghost in a Jar Baby Wizard Mrs. Refrigerator William Shakespeare Cleopatra Bigfoot Cats (From Two Cat Morty) This is a list of forms that the parasites have taken, but were not named: Astronaut Bear Parka-Wearing Bird - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Bearded Lady Big Bad Wolf Blue Bunny Girl - It is one of Tinkles' friends. British Guard Burglar Butterfly/Sunflower hybrid - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Carmen Miranda Caveman Chef Chowder Look-A-Like - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Cloud Yeti - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Duck With Muscles Elvis Impersonator Flamingo Girl Robot Girl Scout Gnome Harlem Globetrotter Headphones-Wearing Dragon - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Homeless Puppet Hoodie-Wearing Snail - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Humanoid Catfish  Humanoid Sun Japanese Businessman Kaiser Wilhelm II Lucky Cat Manicorn Mexican Man Mr. Peanut Look-a-Like Monkey Critter - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Mushroom Head NASA Monkey Nun Pig with pigtails - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Pink Balloon Animal Pink and White Squirrel - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Rooster Scarface Bear - It was said to have compatible kidneys alongside Beth's kidneys. Scottish Warrior Sea Captain in Rain Gear Small Cowboy on Dog Smoking Spaceman Snake in Party Hat Snorkel Kid  Sunglasses-Wearing Strawberry - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Sweatband-Wearing Star - It is one of Tinkles' friends. Trashcan-Wearing Creature Twink Look-A-Like - He is one of Tinkles' friends. Based from Rainbow Brite. Waka Flocka Flame Look-A-Like - He is one of Tinkles' friends. William Wallace Look-A-Like - It resembles the character from the film Braveheart. Winter-Wear Turtle - It is one of Tinkles' friends.  is based from the character in Chickenhare. Appearances: "Mortynight Run" (Unhatched Eggs) "Total Rickall" Pocket Mortys Trivia: Rick was the one that brought the parasites to the house, he can be seen picking up some rocks with some eggs at the end of "Mortynight Run" and can be seen binning the same rocks at the start of "Total Rickall". One of the writers said in the episode commentary of Total Rickall that he is a fan of the American science fiction horror film series The Thing (1982) whose the titular main antagonist is an extraterrestrial organism that can assimilate an organism and imitate them exactly down to their memories. The true appearance of the parasites resemble the Rasklapanje, an enemy from Resident Evil 6. Some of the parasites resembling humans from appearance to memories is based off the Worms from the 2006 series Kamen Rider Kabuto. References ↑ The Art of Rick and Morty page 98 