Miles Knightly was a character from the animated television show "Rick and Morty," voiced by Justin Theroux. He was introduced and featured in the episode "One Crew over the Crewcoo's Morty" and was known for his profession as a "heist artist" -- a skilled thief who prided himself on his strategic and charismatic approach to theft. Appearance: Knightly was recognized by his distinctive look, which included light red skin, blue to purple sleeked hair, pointy ears, a monobrow resembling Rick's, a mustache chopped in the middle, green eyes, and a yellow leather jacket. Interestingly, he had a bronze skeleton, a fact revealed only after a gruesome incident where his skin and limbs were ripped off. His overall appearance bore a significant resemblance to the DC Comics character Sinestro and to the iconic Queen lead singer Freddie Mercury, even donning one of Mercury's signature outfits. Personality: Knightly was a rather polite, albeit arrogant, individual with a deep admiration for the heist genre, seeing it as an art form. He was highly confident in his heisting abilities and was genuinely surprised when Rick outsmarted him in a "heist-off," proof to his previous level of self-assuredness. Biography:: Knightly comes into the storyline when Rick and Morty discover Knightly's calling card after a tomb raiding adventure. This leads them to Heist-Con, a convention hosted by Knightly himself. He challenged Rick to a "heist-off," which resulted in an unexpected turn of events. Rick, using his robot Heistotron, managed to outmaneuver Knightly's plans and cause a chaotic scenario where all attendees of Heist-Con were ordered to steal everything in the convention center. This led to Knightly's gruesome dismemberment and death. Heist-Con and the Heist-Off: The competition known as the "heist-off" took place at Heist-Con, a convention for heist artists. In order to gain entrance as professionals (since Rick refused to attend as a fan), Rick and Morty were required to assemble a crew. Once inside, Rick and Morty immediately ditched their makeshift crew and proceeded to the convention hall where Miles Knightly was presenting a conference. When Knightly challenged Rick to a "heist-off," the competition stipulated that the first crew to steal the Crystal Skull of Horwitz would be the victors. Knightly managed to double-cross Rick by recruiting his crew members, but Rick, having predicted this, used his robot Heistotron to outwit Knightly, hypnotizing all the convention attendees and causing a frenzy of theft that ultimately resulted in Knightly's death. 