Million Ants was a superhero and a member of The Vindicators who appeared in "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender". Appearance: Million Ants was a colony of red ants who have collected themselves (under the order of a queen ant, which reproduces them immediately back to one million if any are killed) into taking a humanoid shape. He was colored red and had a hollow looking set of eyes and mouth. He can also manipulate his appearance to non-humanoid forms as well. Personality: According to Rick Sanchez's game, he has a tragic origin, but so do the rest of the Vindicators. Million Ants is shown to be a rather heroic, level-headed and honorable member of the Vindicators.  His personality seems to be at most harmless. He was one of the few Vindicators who wasn't shown to be particularly upset at Rick for putting them in his personal Saw games. Million Ants was having an affair with Supernova. He is very protective of Supernova, standing up to Alan Rails, however given the revelations of the spinoff series it could show more blind loyalty. He eventually murdered Alan when Supernova attempted to separate them, even though Alan couldn't really fight back.  When Supernova and Crocubot fixed the press release to take credit on fighting Doom-Nomitron and blame him on the deaths of their teammates and Dorian 5 (even though it was Supernova). Like the rest, save Alan, Million Ants doesn't fight the idea. He is indifferent and just tells Alan to smile for the show. That either hints loyalty to Supernova or his inability to understand the broader picture. Though he murdered Alan, he still has some beliefs. When Supernova was ready to kill Rick and Morty, he stops her. He states that it was her beliefs and pursuit of justice that taught him to be a man, not just a sentient pile of ants. Supernova stated that he was "always the romantic". Biography:: Before becoming Million Ants, he had some sort of tragic background, as in the first challenge, all of the traits are interchangeable and don't matter who they're given to, with one being 'Tragic Backstory'. At some point he and Supernova had an affair. In the Vindicators 2, its shown that Supernova hid the paternity from Alan and it seems Million Ants, himself. As he shows no reaction to her pregnancy announcement, this hints that Supernova probably for a time called the affair off. Upon seeing Alan and Supernova, apparently happy to have a child together. It drives him to attempt to a dating profile, hinting he was lonely. As for the child, Supernova miscarried it on Dorian 5, which caused the destruction of the entire planet. After Rick's trap killed Doom-Nomitron, Supernova jumped at the chance for their team to take credit. She also used it to cover the deaths of their teammates and the destruction of Dorian 5.  Save for Alan Rails, the entire team had no problem with the idea. Million Ants has also teamed up with Rick and Morty before, but this is unseen. When Worldender comes back, he and the rest of the Vindicators go to fight it. Due to Rick's preemptive defeat of Worldender during a drunken rampage, he and the rest of the Vindicators get stuck in a Rick-created parody of the movie Saw. Eventually, during the challenge where they have to score 5 3-pointers in basketball in 5 minutes, he and Alan Rails get into a fight, which ended with Million Ants killing Alan Rails. At the end of all the challenges, Supernova finally snaps, and ends up murdering Million Ants by ending the life of the queen ant inside him which shocks Rick himself. Powers and Abilities: Healing Factor: Queen Ant can quickly produce offspring if Million Ants gets injured. Size Shifting: Million Ants can change his size and shape by commanding the ants that make up his body to form those shapes. Appearances: "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" "Rick Can Handle It" (non-speaking cameo) "Pro-Nouns" "The Dance" (mentioned) "Out of Gas" "Mercy Kill" (non-speaking cameo) "Little Trains" (mentioned) "Heroes" "Rick and Morty Issue 44" "Rick and Morty Presents: The Vindicators"  Trivia: Rick refers to him as "Wiggly Turd Man", being unable to make out the ants comprising his body from the opposite side of the conference table. He is most like a reference to and parody of Marvel Superhero, Ant-Man, possibly specifically Hank Pym. Although, his appearance is similar to Marvel villain Swarm, who is made up of countless bees. The Vindicators spinoff shows that he was lonely and attempted to get a dating profile. Given how Supernova withheld the information of her child's paternity, it’s most likely she didn't tell Million Ants either, however his reaction is stoic at best. Nor is it shown of his feelings towards her miscarriage.While filling out his dating profile, he is shown to be unsure about his pronouns. Though he has a male mentality (he/him), the Queen ant who is the core of his being is female (she/her), but his body is also made up of numerous individual entities (they/them). While filling out his dating profile, he is shown to be unsure about his pronouns. Though he has a male mentality (he/him), the Queen ant who is the core of his being is female (she/her), but his body is also made up of numerous individual entities (they/them). He was planned to have an assistant called "Three Ants", who was later cut before production. Despite murdering Alan, Supernova and Million Ants placed the blame solely on Rick. The number of one million ants is actually rather small: in real life, ants can form colonies from 500 to several million workers, not including super-colonies that can contain hundreds of millions. Million Ants, however, specifically states that he maintains a strict number.This also allows calculating his total mass: with the heaviest known ant being Giant Forest Ant (Dinomyrmex Gigas soldier) with 0.372g each, Million Ants could weight up to 372 kg. This also allows calculating his total mass: with the heaviest known ant being Giant Forest Ant (Dinomyrmex Gigas soldier) with 0.372g each, Million Ants could weight up to 372 kg. References ↑ Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender DVD Commentary Navigation: