Morty Smith of Dimension C-131 was a Morty who was killed alongside his dimension's Rick in an accidental lab explosion and was replaced by Morty Prime fleeing from his Prime Dimension. He was the son of "Season 2" Jerry and Beth Smith, and the younger brother of Summer Smith. Biography:: The entire history of this Morty is exactly the same history as the original Morty Smith. Including all five episodes of the series that took place before the events of the episode Rick Potion #9 except in his dimension, his grandfather Rick was a tiny bit more active man than the original and so, he had the energy to make an antidote to turn the Cronenbergs back to normal again. He returned home the next day with his grandfather Rick and he congratulated him, showing his appreciation for his hard work and started to accept him more. They continued to work on his Ionic Defibrillator, and he helped Rick by passing him a screwdriver. This Defibrillator was programmed wrong, and when Rick finished it, it anbruptly exploded on him and Rick, and as a result it killed the two of them. Just then, the main Rick and Morty (A.K.A. our current Rick and Morty) arrived and buried the bodies of their alternate-dimension selves in the backyard and lived out the rest of their lives in their respective places. In the episode Rixty Minutes, Morty showed to his adoptive sister Summer the graves where they buried their C-131 counterparts, explaining to her the events of the previous episode and their deaths. In the episode Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri, Morty (ะก-131), Diane (C-131) and Jerry (C-131) are shown in Beth's flashbacks. In Solaricks, after Rick, Morty and Jerry were sent back to their original universes, Summer reveals to Beth that their versions of Rick and Morty are buried in the backyard. Appearance: Morty was a young teenage boy. He has a medium complexion, short brown hair, and a small, droopy nose. Morty's head is round and roughly in the shape and size of a circle, unlike many other characters in the show. He also doesn't have a visible neck. He typically wears a yellow shirt, blue pants, and white shoes. He had a pronounced stutter (even when calm) and his voice was constantly breaking due to the effects of puberty. Personality: Morty was a good-natured and impressionable boy who can be somewhat easily manipulated. He has been described as 'challenged' and has difficulty in school. He also has a pronounced stutter. Despite his lack of intellect, Morty has shown to be a good listener and follows directions well. These traits make him the perfect sidekick to his grandfather Rick. He is interested in Jessica, a student in his math class, but is typically horny in general. Derived of the events of his grandfather Rick's selfless and helpful act to cure the world of Cronenberg disease, this Morty changed to become more happy and appreciative of his grandfather's genius intellect and all his hard work with his inventions. He was a much happier and nicer boy who got along with Rick better and had a lot more fun with him and their presence together was a lot more nice and tolerable. Episode Appearances: "Rick Potion #9" "Rixty Minutes" (mentioned) "The Rickshank Rickdemption" (mentioned) "The ABC's of Beth" (Pictured) "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri" (cameo) "Solaricks" (mentioned)  