 Mortimer Chauncey "Morty" Smith Sr. of the Prime Dimension is one of the two titular protagonists of Rick and Morty, alongside Rick. He was often incorrectly identified as Morty C-137 until Season 5. Morty is Rick Sanchez's grandson and is often forced to tag along on his various misadventures as a sidekick whilst attending Harry Herpson High School along with his sister, Summer. At the beginning of the series, Morty was shown to be an incredibly anxious and submissive teenage boy. He had little say in the adventures he went on with Rick and was often verbally abused and manipulated by him. However, Morty eventually gained more confidence as time went on and is now more capable and independent rather than a mere sidekick. This newfound confidence also allowed Morty to distance himself from Rick more often due to his despicable tendencies, although Morty still stays by his side when necessary.  It has since been revealed in "Solaricks" that Rick (C-137) is not his true grandfather, as protagonist Morty is actually the biological grandson of Rick Prime, a version of Rick who murdered C-137's family. After decades of failing to get revenge on Rick Prime, Rick eventually arrived in Morty's dimension to take his place, kickstarting the series and thus Rick and Morty's adventures.  Morty, despite being fourteen, has a mental age of several lifetimes. This is due to living in a time freeze for six months along with Rick and Summer, playing fifty-five years inside of the arcade game Roy: A Life Well Lived (the game is designed to cause memory blur after a play session, meaning Morty only has a vague recollection of this life), living for several more months inside of the Teenyverse, an especially long video-game like reality save, and growing up for several decades as part of a manifestation inside of the Fear Hole (the Fear Hole as an entity is also designed to cause memory blur related to an individual's experiences within it).  Biography: Currently, Morty is 14 years old, being born on February 6th 1999. He first met his grandfather, Rick Sanchez, when the latter moved into his home after supposedly being absent for 20 years. Unbeknownst to all at the time, the Rick who returned was not Morty's actual grandfather, but the Rick from Dimension C-137 and, after decades of seeking revenge for the loss of his wife and daughter while exploring the multiverse, he eventually moved into Morty's dimension, hoping that one day, Rick Prime would return to his universe so C-137 could take his revenge. Rick appeared to arrive sometime around Morty's thirteenth birthday, as Rick was present for the party. Rick eventually began wiping Morty's memories of some of their adventures, partly to keep Morty from going insane. In "Raising Gazorpazorp", Beth accidentally admitted that when Morty was a baby, Jerry filled Morty with his own insecurities, making him the anxious teenager we see in the series. In the pilot episode, Morty's parents insist that he has some sort of learning disability. Rick later states Morty's low intelligence masks Rick's high intelligence, acting as a camouflage that prevents Rick's incredible intelligence from being tracked. Roughly a year after Rick had first met Morty, an insecure Morty asked Rick to create some kind of love potion so Jessica would fall in love with him, an annoyed Rick doing just that. As Jessica had the flu though, this created a contagion where everyone, save those genetically related to Morty, was in love with Morty. Rick attempted to cure this serum through a combination of various animal DNAs only to wind up mutating the planet into Cronenbergs. Unwilling to fix the problem, Rick decided that they should simply leave, abandoning Morty's universe for a new one. Traumatized by the affair, Morty initially kept this fact a secret only to let Summer C-131 in on it when she was suffering from an emotional crisis. After being ambushed by the Galactic Federation at Birdperson and Tammy Guterman's wedding, the family hid on Dwarf Terrace-9, Rick leaving to "get ice cream". Understanding that Rick was sacrificing his freedom for the family's safety, Morty tried to make the best of the Federation's rule of Earth, hoping his family could have a normal life. When Summer grew desperate to save Rick, she dug Rick C-131's Portal Gun out from the backyard. To prove his point, Morty opened a portal back to the Prime Dimension, showing how Rick had callously abandoned Morty's original family. When said original family destroyed C-131's Portal Gun, guards from the Citadel responded, freezing the Prime family and taking Morty and Summer prisoner. When tried by the Council of Ricks, Morty denied renouncing Rick, warning the Council that he would come for them, a fact proven true seconds later when Rick C-137 teleported the Citadel into the Federation Prison's. After rescuing Morty and Summer, Rick brought down the Federation. Upon returning to Earth, Rick triumphantly revealed to Morty that he'd manipulated everything to have Beth divorce Jerry and make himself the dominant figure in the family and Morty's life. Concerned about his dad though, Morty guilted Rick into taking Jerry on an adventure.  Morty eventually helped himself to the Portal Gun, using it to repair Rick's damage across the galaxy only for Rick to discover what he'd done, causing the two to fall out. Though Morty tried to forgive and forget, Rick was ashamed that Morty was too scared to tell him. Gifting Morty the Portal Gun, Rick left with the Two Crows to go on a journey of emotional self-discovery. Desperate to get back together, Morty visited the Citadel and bought an aging solution, aging himself up to forty-years old to guilt Rick into coming home. When Rick did eventually return, they returned to the Citadel to de-age Morty. While there, they were ambushed by Evil Morty who scanned Rick's brain and used that knowledge to punch a hole in the Central Finite Curve. As they attempted to escape, Morty learnt Rick's true backstory. Knowing that Ricks only emigrated to new realities if the native Rick was dead, Morty assumed his biological grandfather was dead. Unable to stop Evil Morty, Rick and Morty retreated to Mortytown, detaching its saucer from the larger structure but leaving them stranded without portal travel or a spaceship. Rick and Morty were eventually rescued by Space Beth who brought them back to Earth. Rick attempted to reset the portal index but accidentally reset all portal travellers, sending them all to their original realities. Sent back to the Prime Dimension, Morty scavenged supplies before he came across his father who had cut him out of his life. As Morty cried, Rick returned, revealing that the Rick who killed Rick C-137's family was Morty's original grandfather. When the two tracked down Rick Prime to his hideout, Prime laid an obvious trap for Rick only for Morty to convince Rick that he had a new family that needed him. Upon reuniting the whole family however, Season 2 Jerry released Mr. Frundles, damning Dimension C-131, forcing the family to move to the Parmesan dimension. After Morty brushed off Rick in favour of joining the Knights of the Sun, an insulted Rick rededicated himself to hunting Rick Prime, creating RickBot to keep Morty distracted. On Christmas however, Morty learnt of the deception, damaging his relationship with Rick. After RickBot had been killed, Rick conceded that he should have been honest with Morty and invited him into the hunt for Rick Prime. Rick eventually decided to "basically [frack]" the Central Finite Curve to flush out Rick Prime, killing his decoys one by one. When these shockwaves reached Evil Morty, beyond the Curve, Evil Morty suggested filtering for probability stasis. When this brought only one version of Rick Prime, Rick hesitated, suspecting a trap, leading to an argument with Evil Morty. When an annoyed Morty killed the Prime clone, it transported them to a box full of alternate Ricks, all of whom were also hunting Rick Prime. Rick and the Mortys managed to survive the trap, Rick using the black portal fluid to finally track down Rick Prime. Finding a rebuilt Omega Device, which Prime used to kill Slow Mobius, Rick and Evil Morty fought Rick Prime only for him to defeat them both. At the last moment though, Evil Morty managed to swap shirts with Morty, Prime's "original grandson", lowering Prime's guard so Evil Morty could incapacitate him, disable his backups and steal the Omega Device's blueprints. Resuscitating Rick, Evil Morty allowed him to finally take revenge on Rick Prime, Rick beating his nemesis to death. Now having the Omega Device's blueprints, Evil Morty left, warning Rick and Morty to leave him alone. Though Morty was pleased that the revenge quest was finally over, Rick was left directionless with his enemy's death. At a fear carnival, Rick and Morty were invited by the Fear Hole Demon to try out the Fear Hole. Though Rick scoffed at it, Morty jumped in, jumping through various levels of the Hole to confront his fear of relying on Rick. When Morty confronted this fear, he was released, Rick noting that he seemed "less burdened". At Morty's advice, Rick ignored the Fear Hole, though he did put a photo of Morty on the wall of those who had conquered the Fear Hole. Appearance Morty is a young teenage boy. He has a medium complexion, short brown hair, and a small, droopy nose. Morty's head is round and roughly in the shape and size of a circle, unlike many other characters in the show. He also doesn't have a visible neck. He typically wears a yellow shirt, blue pants, and white shoes.   Morty also has a pronounced stutter (even when calm) and his voice constantly breaks due his effects of puberty. However, as the series has progressed, Morty's stutter seems to occur less frequently.    Personality Morty is a young, good-natured, and impressionable boy who can be somewhat easily manipulated. He has been described as 'challenged' and has difficulty in school. He also has a pronounced stutter. Despite his apparent lack of intellect, Morty has shown to be a good listener and follows directions well. These traits make him the perfect sidekick to Rick. He is interested in Jessica, a student in his math class. Like many boys his age, he spends a good deal of time masturbating. Morty may sometimes act spineless, but he has shown bravery and quick-wittedness in the face of adversity, such as leading the extraction effort out of Anatomy Park, and using a pair of grappling boots to escape the guards in Intergalactic Customs. Morty is also quite responsible for his age, refusing to kill an alien child in the episode "Raising Gazorpazorp". While Rick, Beth, and Jerry have all expressed their belief that Morty is unintelligent, there is substantial evidence to the contrary. When the group at Anatomy Park are attacked by Gonorrhea, he comes up with the idea to exploit the gas building up in the body to defeat the disease. He is able to grasp complex concepts, such as the multiverse of infinite realities, when Rick explains them to him, and is quick to notice Rick's hypocrisy regarding the morality of his microverse in "The Ricks Must Be Crazy." His hidden intelligence also continues to be an asset in season 2. Impressively, Morty is able to distract Fart, a being capable of reading minds, by requesting that he sing. This gives Morty time to kill him with an antimatter gun, clearly surprising the telepathic being. In "Total Rickall," Morty is the first to realize that the alien parasites are only capable of creating positive memories. He was also able to, while inside the Teenyverse, find the Tree People, be accepted into their group, learn their language and culture, and work his way up the ranks until he had the ability to command them, all within, from their perspective according to Rick, a few months.  In "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender"  showed that Morty is well versed in high-tech technology, he decided to defuse a neutrino bomb capable of destroying an entire planet and coped with it perfectly, but Rick still helped him to defuse it to the end. Most likely he was taught to do it by Rick or himself. In "Forgetting Sarick Mortshall" Morty created a portal fluid, based on soda from the remains of the original portal fluid, with this version of the portal fluid, the portals function, but not properly and cannot close, due to his negligence, Morty could, in fact, ruin himself, for one Rick from the Citadel made a toxic version of the liquid and died from it ("The Ricklantis Mixup"), his math was not correct, even Rick himself later told Morty that such a liquid was toxic.  In the same episode, Morty accidentally poured a version of his portal fluid into his palm and a portal opened to one man - Nick, who was Rick's former partner, Morty became friends with him, but then betrayed him as Nick turned out to be a dangerous psychopath, and after Morty's betrayal, Nick was going to kill him and began to choke Morty right next to the train, Morty and Nick were connected by portals, therefore  Morty decided to get rid of him in an ingenious way, he cuts off his hand with the portal under the train wheel and drops it into the portal that was in Nick's thigh, creating a singularity that destroys it. Despite this, he thinks poorly of his own intelligence, referring to Jerry and himself as "idiots" when Scroopy Noopers questions the intelligence of the members of the Smith Family in "Something Ricked This Way Comes." This is probably because of his impressionable nature; since Rick and his parents tell Morty he's stupid, and because he doesn't perform well in school, he has a low opinion of himself. Despite his malleable nature, Morty has the strength to be able to stand up to Rick. In the episode "Meeseeks and Destroy", Morty directly calls out Rick on his cynical nature. He leads his own adventure with the direct goal of helping villagers. His malleable nature makes him echo Ricks words and speech, especially after Rick insults Summer, though he has a tendency to become hysterically upset at her. Morty is shown to have repressed anger issues these anger issues have caused him to become hysterical and homicidal which is most notably seen in "Look Who's Purging Now". In "A Rickconvenient Mort" Morty killed the members of the Tina-Teers, in order to free his girlfriend Planetina. To one of the members - Eddie, Morty bit off his finger and used a ring of fire against him, which led to his death, after off-screen tore the meat from his head and threw the skull to his colleagues, then dealt with them by taking possession of their rings. Most likely, he inherited the mental state from his mother, because Morty is prone to sadism, and Beth in childhood was with sadistic inclinations, asked her father to do dangerous things for her to interfere with the neighbors. On a few evident occasions, Morty's pubescent curiosity and sexuality has caused some misdemeanors, such as having sexual relations with a breeding robot that birthed a Morty-Gazorpazorp hybrid, or on another occasion in the episode Rickdependence Spray where he pleasures himself with a horse reproduction system which caused unexpected armageddon from his own sperm, impregnating Summer's ovarian egg cell, thus potentially causing an "incest baby" as quoted in the episode.  It is possible to notice that Morty is also incredibly irresponsible, throughout the series, Morty had several ideas and made several choices without thinking about the possible consequences, which resulted in him putting himself, Rick, his entire family, and even everyone in general in danger. Some examples are; asking Rick for a love potion to use on Jessica, which ended up becoming airborne and infecting the entire planet. Had sex with an alien sex doll that ended up having a half-gazorpazorp child, that it was a violent alien race with an unquenchable thirst for blood and mass destruction. Asking Rick for a video game-style saving device, which Morty used without caring how it worked, which resulted in him murdering numerous alternate versions of himself. Masturbated with a dummy mare at her mother's work for a week, where the sperm turned into monsters. Tried to save a gaseous being who assumed the name "Fart",and tried to take him back to his planet, causing a lot of death and destruction along the way only to discover that Fart actually wanted to call his kind to murder all carbon-based lifeforms,forcing Morty to kill him and making all the death and destruction he caused utterly useless. In extreme cases, Morty's actions intentional or unintentional have also led two species from different worlds to clash with him and his family which ended in the extinction of both species.  However, from season 5 and onward Morty has begun to mature beyond being a sidekick and has had his fair share of adventures separate of Rick. Furthermore, he shows a greater inclination of standing up for himself both to Rick and the rest of his family. This is especially shown in Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion where after constantly being put down by Summer and being unfairly kicked off the team, he takes it in stride and is quickly shown to have brushed it off.   Relationships Rick is Morty's maternal grandfather; he and Morty have a close relationship overall. They come across more as best friends than grandson and grandfather, with Morty addressing Rick on a first-name basis and only adding the grandpa out of gratitude, respect or when he wants something from him. According to Beth, Morty doesn't have any friends, implying that Rick may be Morty's only friend. This could be a reason as to why Morty puts up with Rick's selfish and exploitative behavior. Morty at first had a very one-sided relationship with Rick, helping him out despite usually ending up in harm's way or nearly killed. However, Morty does have his limits, as he will stand up to Rick when he is pushed over the edge - for example, when both of his legs are broken in "Pilot", or when Rick destroys the human race in "Rick Potion No. 9". Rick will help Morty out if it is beneficial to him, as in "Lawnmower Dog", in which he tricks Mr. Goldenfold into giving Morty A's in math so that Morty can help him more on his adventures. However, it is implied that Rick does indeed love Morty, as shown in "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind", when Rick starts crying at his memories of Morty, but generally he refrains from expressing it so that Morty does not become, as he puts it, "cocky". From "Rick Potion No. 9" onwards, Morty no longer lives in his original dimension. Rick created a love potion designed to make Jessica attracted to Morty. However, it accidentally spread due to Jessica having the flu, and when Rick carelessly added various "remedies" it turned the humans of Earth into hideous mutants. The potion did not affect those closely related to Morty (up to two generations, as Rick is spared despite being Morty's grandfather and not immediate family), thus the rest of the Smith's remain unmutated. The mutants are described by Rick as "Cronenburgs" (named after Canadian horror film maker David Cronenburg). Instead of reverting the mutations himself, Rick takes him and Morty to an alternate dimension where their counterparts did, in a method undisclosed to the audience. Just before Rick and Morty arrived, their new dimension's counterparts were killed, caused by an explosion from a machine being engineered by the Rick counterpart. Rick C-137 and Morty bury their dead counterparts in the Smith's backyard, and secretly replace them. In "Ricksy Business", after Rick and Summer both throw parties at the same time and trash their house, Morty is presented with an opportunity to permanently end all future adventures with Rick. Morty claims that he shouldn't care that he wouldn't be able to travel with Rick anymore, but still decides to have Rick fix everything, instead of leaving him passed out on the couch, implying that while Rick's actions do affect him, he would rather continue having adventures as opposed to not having them. Morty thinks that Rick is "petty", and resents the fact that Rick has trouble "rolling with the punches" when put into a situation he isn't comfortable with; something that Morty does on a near-daily basis. Morty also seems to take what Rick says about him very seriously, as he becomes teary-eyed when Rick calls Morty "as dumb as he (Rick) is smart" in "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind". He is also very upset and angered at the idea that Mortys only exist to be human cloaking devices for Ricks, and resents the fact that Rick could just replace his Morty at any time with another Morty from a different reality. Despite all this, Rick still believes that Morty is "the Morty-est Morty", since he views himself as "the Rick-est Rick". It was revealed in season 5 that Morty is starting to grow sick and tired of Rick's constant insults and is far more willing to stand up in defense of himself. In spite of all the physical and mental trauma that Rick has put him through in their adventures, Morty still considers Rick his grandfather and his friend. In "Forgetting Sarick Mortshall" Morty was heartbroken when Rick decided to leave Morty, claiming he would be better off without him. This lead him to two different attempts to get Rick back in "Rickmurai Jack" and he later proves his loyalty to his grandfather when he refuses to join with Evil Morty in favor of Rick. Later in "Solaricks", with Rick tempted to continue his quest for revenge against Rick Prime, Morty gets Rick to stop by telling him that he considers Rick his actual Grandfather, not Rick Prime. This ultimately convinces Rick to abandon his vengeance, at least for the time being. Conversely, it appears that Rick Prime, despite being willing to kill him, does have a degree of attachment to Morty, feeling obligated to make some small talk with him when he thought he met his original Morty. In "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation", Rick replaces himself with Rickbot in order to continue his search for Rick Prime. When Morty continually expresses his anger at his Grandfather for tricking him, Rick shoots back that Morty called him boring, and clearly stopped respecting him and walks away. However Rick still returns to save Morty (and inadvertently The President's) from succumbing to the vaccum of space. While Rickbot dies, he reveals that Rick built him to be around the Morty and to make him happy and show that Rick truly cares for his Grandson's happiness. Rick also admits he should have included Morty, and promises to work together to hunt down Rick Prime as their arc for season 7. While in the pilot, Morty and Summer's relationship is that of a normal younger brother and older sister, they eventually became somewhat closer. It is shown that Morty loves and respects his sister, which is most evident in "Rixty Minutes", where Morty reveals to her he isn't her "real" brother and convinces her to not move out. He also defends his sister against Rick's harsh treatment several times, becoming angry with Tiny Rick for humiliating her at the school dance in "Big Trouble In Little Sanchez" and chastising him for saying 'fuck you' to her in "The Wedding Squanchers." Despite their close relationship, the two have lots of bad memories of each other as seen in "Total Rickall", where Summer kicks Morty in his crotch for going in her room even though he was innocent. And when Summer enters the kitchen to find Morty masturbating in the corner. Although she seems to envy the adventures Rick and Morty have, Summer seems to hold this more against her grandfather than Morty himself. Morty is also sickened by the sight of a dream version of Summer dressed in highly sexual clothing in "Lawnmower Dog". Morty has a loving but strained relationship with his father due in large part to the frequent misadventures Morty has with Rick. Because Rick often puts Morty in dangerous situations, Jerry is against his son being involved with him. His opposition to Rick bringing Morty with him is likely also a result of his own constant conflicts with Rick, as Jerry is frequently, and shamelessly insulted by Rick at any given opportunity, typically pointing out Jerry's far less-than-average intelligence and his less-than-perfect marriage to his daughter. Morty still goes to Jerry for advice, such as when he needed romantic insight in "Rick Potion #9", and agrees to work on his science project with him (though this is only because Beth discreetly tells Morty that Jerry is insecure with his intelligence). In many ways, their relationship is somewhat reversed from a normal father-son dynamic: Morty often acts like the mature one, pointing out that he could have been masturbating in his room when Jerry entered without warning, and sparing Jerry's feelings about Pluto not being a planet in "Something Ricked This Way Comes", whereas Jerry often acts like a child, having fits of rage over simple things like golfing, and trying to prove to others around him that Pluto is a planet. Despite everything, Morty told him that nobody does a better a job at being his father than Jerry, something that left Jerry happy. In "The Old Man and the Seat", Morty reveals that he thinks Jerry is a loser but this was because he was upset that Jerry got him in a bad situation. Despite this turbulent standing in "The Vat of Acid Episode", Morty can be seen happy to see Jerry in his montage. In "Childrick of Mort", Morty was annoyed by Jerry hosting a camping trip but was stunned by Summer's ballistic shouting at Jerry and defended his father. Later on, Morty realized Jerry was right about them not knowing everything. Jerry returned the sentiment by telling them they were right, something that left Morty shocked. This also caused Morty to realize how unfairly he has been treating his father. Since then, Morty and Jerry interact better though Morty is still annoyed by his behavior but he hasn't lashed out at him. Jerry on the other hand, has noticed Morty's increasingly violent behavior after his murder of bullies and the Tina-teers in A Rickconvenient Mort. Morty respects and loves his mother very much, despite the fact that they have yet to have any meaningful interactions with each other. It is implied that Morty respects her more than his father, though he does not think that her method of parenting is very good in "Raising Gazorpazorp". Either way, he still loves his mother very much, and for Beth the feeling is mutual. In the pilot episode, Beth expresses concern when Morty falls asleep at breakfast and asks if he is getting sick. Also in "Close Rick-counters of the Rick-kind" Beth is terrified when Morty is taken away by the Council of Ricks and yells at Jerry that their son has been abducted. In "The Wedding Squanchers" Beth is seen with her arm around Morty when they arrive at the Screaming Sun planet. This shows that Beth does have a great amount of concern for her son. In "Something Ricked This Way Comes", Beth asks Morty to let Jerry help him with his science project instead of Rick to boost his self esteem, through the phone. They seem to know and understand each other, and Jerry, very well. In "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy", Morty lashes out on Beth for her distance towards him and Summer. He blames this on her relationship with Rick, telling her that she doesn't need to prove herself to be worthy of Rick's love by acting essentially just like him, as it is making her appear just as narcissistic and irresponsible. And that while she's trying to gain Rick's approval, she's hurting him and Summer. Beth institutes a change after this, acting more motherly and understanding. Morty, later in the episode, compliments her while talking to Ethan, calling her a "good mom." Meaning he really appreciated her propensity to change. Beth's awareness of her mistreatment of her children may drive her farther away from Rick, as she will likely stop trying to get him to love her, and instead find solace in her relationship with her kids, including Morty. In "Morty's Mind Blowers", when Beth was forced to decide between Morty and Summer, she almost immediately chose Summer. Morty was so heartbroken by her response that he asked Rick to remove the memory from his mind. During "A Rickconvenient Mort", Beth ultimately shows she does love Morty by voicing disapproval of his status with Planetina because of the age gap (despite her being unaging) and his recklessness in getting involved with her. Morty became angry with Beth after she demands Planetina leave. Morty, lashed out at her by voicing his adventures and how Beth, as well as the rest of the family doubt him and never let him be happy, leaving Beth stunned and possibly regretful. When Morty and Planetina break up, Beth, hearing the argument, comforts a weeping Morty. Morty is shown to have repressed anger issues these anger issues have caused him to become hysterical and homicidal which is most notable seen in "Look Who's Purging Now". In "A Rickconvenient Mort" Morty killed the members of the Tina-Teers, in order to free his girlfriend Planetina. To one of the members - Eddie, Morty bit off his finger and used a ring of fire against him, which led to his death, after off-screen tore the meat from his head and threw the skull to his colleagues, then dealt with them by taking possession of their rings. Most likely, he inherited the mental state from his mother, because Morty is prone to sadism, and Beth in childhood was with sadistic inclinations, asked her father to do dangerous things for her to interfere with the neighbors. In the episode "The ABC's of Beth" Beth brutally cracked down on the residents of Froopyland and killed Tommy, she liked it. Snuffles was Morty's dog, first shown in "Lawnmower Dog". Morty always treated Snuffles, aka Snowball, with kindness, so Snuffles lets him keep his testicles and live by his side. Morty seems to support Snuffles' decision to colonize a new planet with the other intelligent dogs. Morty's Gazorpian son born from a Gazorpian sex robot that Rick purchased for Morty in "Raising Gazorpazorp". Morty had a love-hate relationship with Morty Jr. Morty wanted to keep his son safe and happy, as a result, he imprisoned him within their home for his own good, as well as for the safety of the world, due to his son's desire to murder everyone he saw, and wanting to conquer the planet. When Rick tried to kill Morty Jr., Morty intervened, going so far as to state that he'd risk his own life to save his son's. In the end, however, Morty Jr. became spiteful of his father, going so far as to title his autobiography "My Horrible Father". Morty was shocked and hurt at this; Beth told him that a parent can only do the best they can, but only said dejectedly "I hope he's eating enough", showing that in spite of everything, he still loves and worries about his son. Jessica is Morty's main love interest in the series. She is a student who goes to school with him and is in a few of his classes. Morty rarely talks to Jessica and mainly just admires her from afar. On a few occasions, he's talked to her. In the Pilot, he started to have a conversation with her, about Rick, before Rick pulled him away. In Ricksy Business, Jessica was at his house for Summer's party and Morty had a conversation with her about her failing relationship with Brad. Later, Morty showed her around Rick's garage and introduced a bunch of his inventions to her. Currently, they can be considered friendly acquaintances. The closest the two of them have ever come to dating, was in the episode Big Trouble In Little Sanchez, where Jessica and Morty were seen holding hands with each other at the school dance. Given that Jessica was in a relationship with Brad at the time, it's unlikely that they were dating, and they were simply together as friends. Also, given the expulsion of Tiny Rick in that episode, whatever relationship they previously had in that episode, is definitely over. Being a teenager, Morty's love for Jessica extends beyond romance, as he has a lot of sexual fantasies about her. In the Pilot episode, Morty fell asleep in class and had a wet dream about fondling Jessica's boobs. In Mortynight Run, it was revealed that Morty also has a foot fetish for her and occasionally has erotic thoughts about her feet. Mr. Goldenfold is Morty's math teacher, Morty's natural ineptitude with Math and his lack of effort in class leads to Mr Goldenfold often asking Morty to attempt questions in an effort to motivate him, resulting in persistent embarrassment for Morty. In the Pilot episode, Morty falls asleep in Mr. Goldenfold's class and has a erotic dream involving his crush Jessica. While asleep his hands idley massaged Mr Goldenfold's chest, believing it to be Jessica's. Despite being groped by an underage student Mr. Goldenfold seemed to enjoy the experience and resolved to wait for a few minutes before he officially "got mad". In the episode Lawnmower Dog, Rick recruits Morty to "Incept" Mr Goldenfold and convince him to give Morty an undeserved "A" in his math class so that Morty can continue to go on adventures with Rick and not worry about his Math results. In the post credits scene of The Ricks Must Be Crazy Morty while struggling to concentrate in class falls asleep and awakens the dormant gene placed inside him that transforms him into a sentient car (as mentioned prior in the episode) shocking Mr Goldenfold and the class. In the The Vat of Acid Episode Mr Goldenfold reveals to the class that he fell in love with a "Buxom Axe Juggler half his age" while at a renaissance fair. And after spending most of the year traveling the country before breaking up, Mr Goldenfold is now an expert blacksmith with multiple STDs. Using his new place saving device that he recieved from Rick earlier, Morty pulls down Mr Goldenfold's trousers to reveal his (implied to be) horribly mutated and infected penis before reloading his "save" to avoid the repercussions.  Despite appearing to be a strict Math teacher, Mr Goldenfold will often dismiss his class or give them the day off due to a simple statement or action from Morty. The two appear to have a poor relationship with both embarrasing the other often.  Episode appearances Trivia Morty's voice, and general appearance stemmed from an early Justin Roiland short entitled The Real Animated Adventures of Doc and Mharti, which was a parody of Back to the Future. Morty parodies Marty McFly from Back to the Future.Another character named Marty with an appearance and voice completely identical to Morty's also appears in Justin Roiland's short Paloni Pitch Presentation. Another identical character named Pumpkinseeds and Peanuts, voiced by Andy Dick, appears in another short; The Unmarketables. Another character named Marty with an appearance and voice completely identical to Morty's also appears in Justin Roiland's short Paloni Pitch Presentation. Another identical character named Pumpkinseeds and Peanuts, voiced by Andy Dick, appears in another short; The Unmarketables. He was deemed the "one true Morty" by the imprisoned Mortys in "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind". Morty is considered by Rick to be the "Morty-est" Morty. Since he helped conceive Morty Jr. in "Raising Gazorpazorp", this makes him Morty Smith, Sr. Prior to and during the series, Morty has a crush on his classmate Jessica. He was also attracted to Annie in "Anatomy Park" and started a relationship with her. In "Look Who's Purging Now", Morty has a crush on Arthricia. Morty masturbates frequently, and according to him, "everywhere". In "Something Ricked This Way Comes", Morty mentioned that he watches a lot of porn on his laptop and masturbates in his bedroom. In "Total Rickall", a flashback showed Morty masturbating while standing up on the kitchen table, while thinking about a hot friend of his sister's. In "The Ricks Must Be Crazy", while in an ultra-microscopic world, Morty mentioned that he masturbated to a curvy piece of driftwood. It was revealed in "The Ricks Must Be Crazy" that Rick modified Morty's DNA structure so he can transform into a car. However, Morty was unaware of this until Rick told him while they were chasing Zeep Xanflorp. "Rickfending Your Mort" reveals that he can also turn into a sailboat. Morty has a foot fetish. As heard in Mortynight Run, when Fart says "I communicate through what you call 'Jessica's feet', no, 'Telepathy'." "Jessica's feet" was an excerpt from Morty's mind. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", Morty's legal age, under Galactic Federation, became 35. Morty is agnostic. In "Mort Dinner Rick Andre," it is said that Rick had at least one known assistant (named Kyle) prior to Morty. As seen in "Mort Dinner Rick Andre" and said by Dan Harmon, Morty is starting to get tired of Rick's behavior and is getting more frustrated with his insults. Before being cloned into new bodies in "Mort: Ragnarick", Morty was, in a sense, the last remaining member of the original cast. His versions of Summer, Beth and Jerry were left behind in the 'Cronenberged' timeline and are all dead as of "Solaricks": His Jerry told him that a mutant licked them out of the ice after being frozen in "The Rickshank Rickdemption", but Beth and Summer died anyway, while Jerry was later killed by Rick Prime. Rick himself has lost his original body and has transferred his consciousness to another Rick in "The Rickshank Rickdemption".As of "Unmortricken", Morty is the last confirmed survivor of the Prime Dimension's human race. The state of his biological paternal grandparents Leonard and Joyce Smith are unconfirmed though, as they are genetically related to Morty, it is likely that they weren't turned into Cronenbergs. As of "Unmortricken", Morty is the last confirmed survivor of the Prime Dimension's human race. The state of his biological paternal grandparents Leonard and Joyce Smith are unconfirmed though, as they are genetically related to Morty, it is likely that they weren't turned into Cronenbergs. Up until the Season 5 finale, Morty was under the impression he was from Dimension C-137, stating "I'm Morty C-137" to the imprisoned Mortys in "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind", and to the Council of Ricks in "The Rickshank Rickdemption." As confirmed in "Rickmurai Jack", Rick C-137 never had his own Smith family, and thus Morty's dimension is not Dimension C-137 as Morty first believed. It is unknown what number Morty's dimension is designated, though it is known as the Prime Dimension.Since Beth C-137 was killed when she was young, Morty C-137 does not exist. Since Beth C-137 was killed when she was young, Morty C-137 does not exist. As of Season 7's conclusion, Morty is the only main character to appear in every episode of the series. Due to the events of "Rick Potion No. 9," he is the first character to destroy an entire dimension, with the second being Jerry Smith (C-131) in "Solaricks." Morty Smith has a Soundboard at: https://deercowboy.com/soundboard/morty-smith/ Gallery  Morty Smith at the Heroes wiki. References 