 Wayne Poopybutthole, more commonly referred to as Mr. Poopybutthole and formerly Professor Poopybutthole, is a long-time family friend of the Smith Family and a recurring character of the show.   He is mostly shown breaking the fourth wall during the show and is the only other character to do this besides Rick. Mr. Poopybutthole often addresses the audience in post-credit scenes following a season finale, where he talks about what just happened in the episode as well as his personal life, before encouraging the audience to tune in for the next season.  Description: Mr. Poopybutthole is a very good friend to the Smith Family, from another dimension (where he is a planet wide superstar) who has taken refuge with the Smiths so he can live a normal life [as started in the comic series 'Lil Poopy Superstar' issue 1-5], he is described as a long-time friend of the family. Rick clearly considers him to have long been a dependable person, although it's uncertain how long they've known each other. He made his first appearance in the Season 2 episode Total Rickall. He was voiced by Justin Roiland but is now voiced by Jon Allen. Biography:: He is shown to have accompanied Rick and Morty on multiple adventures as well as experienced many great moments with the rest of the family. He is such a fond person to the family that Beth can't recall a single bad memory of him. It is revealed by that Mr. Poopybutthole is Jewish in his final appearance to date, as a Rabbi is shown to officiate his Wedding whilst he stomps on napkin-wrapped glass. Mr. Poopybutthole first appeared in the episode Total Rickall, where he was visiting the Smith Family when alien parasites started inserting fictitious good memories into their minds in an attempt to take over the world. Along with the rest of the family, Mr. Poopybutthole had to help the family figure out which new family friends were real and which ones were fake. Morty realizes that the Alien Parasites could only implant good memories into a person's mind, so every family member who had no negative memories affiliated with them was killed. This results in Beth Smith silently questioning whether or not Mr. Poopybutthole is actually one of the many parasites that made them believe they were long time friends. Beth pulls out one of Rick's laser guns and shoots Mr. Poopybutthole in the chest, blasting him across the room onto a wall. The rest of the family panic and Beth retreats into the kitchen and haphazardly pours a glass of wine with eyes filled with tears as Mr. Poopybutthole awaits an ambulance while bleeding heavily. After the credit sequence, Mr. Poopybutthole is shown slowly recovering inside the hospital. After telling the doctor that he no longer wishes to see the Smiths at this point in time, the doctor tells Beth that's he's sorry that "They never had any bad memories of him." Mr. Poopybutthole returns in the post-credits epilogue of the episode The Wedding Squanchers, where he was shown to have just watched the same episode as the viewer. He then turned to the viewers and talked to them about the episode. He was shown to be walking with a cane from the events of Beth shooting him in his previous appearance. Mr. Poopybutthole also swallows his (what are assumed to be) painkillers, pouring them into his mouth, without any water. He ended the episode, telling the viewers to tune into season 3 of the show to see how things would turn out for Rick and the Smith Family. Mr. Poopybutthole's next appearance was the ending of The Rickchurian Mortydate, wherein he gives a similar teaser for the next season as he did in The Wedding Squanchers. Mr. Poopybutthole's appeared in a video released by Adult Swim called "The Poop in My Pants", which is a more emotionally directed video of Mr. Poopybutthole looking through a scrapbook of his life experiences, revealing his whereabouts during the events of season 3. He then appeared in the post-credits scene of the final episode of season 3, The Rickchurian Mortydate, showing his new family with his wife Mrs. Poopybutthole and his son, Baby Poopybutthole.  Mr. Poopybutthole returned in the season 4 episode One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty  as a college professor teaching African-American women's studies. His first lesson was about Maya Angelou when his class suddenly turned on him and started to fight him, but he beat all of them with no problem. Rick and Morty then appeared and recruited him for their heist (during which, as part of Randotron's scheme, he acts as an auctioneer in a livestock sale). Later, it is revealed that Rick paid Mr. Poopybutthole's students to attack him so he could trick him into joining their crew. However, Rick didn't know if the fact they all knew karate was coincidental or correlated to their interest for Maya Angelou. Mr. Poopybutthole expressed regret that being fired from his teaching job for putting his students in the hospital left him unable to explore that connection in his class and Rick apologized for it. In the seventh season finale Fear No Mort, it was shown that he is still homeless. However, he got his hands on a Portal Gun and traveled to a dimension where he is still living happily with his family. He subtly distracted his son while getting rid of his counterpart to assume his place. Mr. Poopybutthole effectively got his family back but due to his swapping which hand held which utensil,  his alternate wife is shown to be secretly suspicious. Appearance: Mr. Poopybutthole is a little yellow humanoid, with a sausage-shaped head, large eyes and a long nose. He wears a black top hat and a blue shirt that appears to be very tight on him, as stretch marks are seen around his neck. He also wears gray shorts and burgundy shoes. He has a high pitched and chipper voice. As seen in the Season 7 premiere, he is capable of growing facial hair. Personality: Mr. Poopybutthole is a wild, crazy, cartoonish, and zany character who is always going around spewing silly catchphrases and doing funny things for everyone. He is always extremely happy and upbeat about everything and always knows how to keep the rest of the family in a good mood even in the darkest of times. He will only be truly sad in the most miserable and drastic of moments, for instance, getting shot by Beth. Mr. Poopybutthole became depressed for a while after his wife, Amy, divorced him and set up a restraining order against him. She also had full custody of their son, Baby Poopybutthole. In response, Mr. Poopybutthole stayed with the Smith family for a while and spent his days wallowing in despair and taking copious amounts of drugs and alcohol. During this time, he also brings up the time he was shot by Beth, demonstrating he has still yet to fully forgive her for it. At the end of the episode, Mr. Poopybutthole seems to come to terms with Amy moving on and pretends to work on doing the same. At the end of Fear No Mort, Mr. Poopybutthole uses a portal gun he apparently stole from Rick and jumps into a dimension in which a version of him is happily married with Amy and switches places with him. Nonetheless the Amy living in that dimension suspects that something is off with her husband. Episode appearances: "Total Rickall" "The Wedding Squanchers" "Morty's Mind Blowers" (Non-Speaking Cameo) "The ABC's of Beth" (Non-Speaking Cameo) "The Rickchurian Mortydate" "One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty" "Rickmurai Jack" "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation" "How Poopy Got His Poop Back" "Rickfending Your Mort" (name on board) "Fear No Mort" Rick and Morty Exquisite Corpse The Non-Canonical Adventures The Poop in My Pants Rocket League Rick and Morty: Virtual Rick-ality Pocket Mortys Lil Poopy Superstar (comic book series) Dan Harmon's explanation: Series co-creator Dan Harmon was directly asked about Mr. Poopybutthole's introduction in an interview with Cinema Blend, with the theory of a perspective switch presented as the explanation most fans came up with. Harmon acknowledged his word may not put fan theories to rest, but offered a potential explanation as to why the events of "Total Rickall" involved the Rick and Morty the audience has been following, while also accounting for Mr. Poopybutthole's sudden appearance. Harmon suggested Mr. Poopybutthole was a more advanced yet benevolent thread of the parasites: rather than making up memories like the rest do, Mr. Poopybutthole's strain takes advantage of holes in people's memories and puts itself in them. Harmon further suggests that this advanced state meant he was not necessarily bound to a single dimension, which is what allowed him to break the fourth wall at the end of "The Wedding Squanchers". Harmon further confirmed the rocks seen at the end of "Mortynight Run" (with some parasite threads on them) were the same rocks Rick throws away at the start of "Total Rickall", which he personally considers proof that "Total Rickall" follows the audience's Rick and Morty. Trivia: Mr. Poopybutthole can be seen edited into the opening credits of the episode Total Rickall. On the wall of Mr. Poopybutthole's apartment, there is a (misspelled) sign that says "Guns Are'nt Fun", which is a reference to when he was shot by Beth. Mr. Poopybutthole is referred to as Mr. Poopypants in Cousin Nicky's first appearance in the Smith home, and he refers to himself as "this little poopypants" just before the shooting. Mr. Poopybutthole is the first character to suggest a flashback, because of the circumstances of their confinement. Cousin Nicky saves the Smiths and Mr. Poopybutthole from a stuck elevator. Mr. Poopybutthole owns his own Ice Cream truck in the Rickstaverse comic, called Holy Holes. Mr. Poopybutthole is adapted from a character Harmon made for Channel 101. Unlike the current PBH, the original was named Poopybutthole Pooerson, and possessed many character traits of Rick Sanchez, including being voiced by Justin Roiland, the telltale spittle on his lips, belching mid sentence, and generally speaking in a rapid, frenetic manner. In an ironic twist, the fact that Morty had a memory of Mr. Poopybutthole proposing to him in Morty's Mind Blowers indicates that the engagement turned out horribly, so had Morty not erased the memory he would know Mr. Poopybutthole was not a parasite in Total Rickall. In The ABC's of Beth, Mr. Poopybutthole can be seen in a picture with Rick on the fridge. Like Rick, he breaks the fourth-wall. He has an evil counterpart called Darth Poopybutthole. As he's been featured into the meta-narrative of the episode Never Ricking Morty (as part of a hypothetical ending to the series), their connection (or even the canonicity of said counterpart) is left unclear. Since the second season finale, Mr. Poopybutthole appears in his home recapping the viewers (via break the fourth wall) on the episode and season  including foreshadowing the next season's release to come. In season 4, he does not appear in the end credits of "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri" as that was last episode of season 4. Mr. Poopybutthole's first name is Wayne, this was revealed in the Season 7 premiere "How Poopy Got His Poop Back". Mr. Poopybutthole's sudden selfishness in Season 7 possibly comes from the fact that he's not the same variant that's been around the whole series, but rather the variant from the Parmesan Dimension. Gallery Click here to view this page's gallery. References: ↑ 1.0 1.1 1.2 Cinema Blend: "Rick And Morty's Dan Harmon Explained Mr. Poopybutthole To Us In The Most Mind-Blowing Way." 