 Mr. Goldenfold is Morty's math teacher and Ice T's former teacher at Harry Herpson High School. He is voiced by Brandon Johnson.  Biography:: Not much is known about Mr. Goldenfold's history besides the fact that he is divorced, as revealed in "Something Ricked This Way Comes" and also has children who are in college, as revealed in the episode "Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie".  Mr. Goldenfold Prime He has an apparent attraction to the television character Mrs. Pancakes, who he has romantic dreams about as seen in "Lawnmower Dog". He was briefly seen in "Rick Potion #9" when he was under the effect of the love potion Rick gave to Morty. In this same episode, Mr. Goldenfold, along with the rest of the people in the world (except for Rick, Morty and the Smith family), became infected with a disease which caused him to mutate into a Cronenberg. After this, Rick and Morty went to Dimension C-131. Mr. Goldenfold (C-131) There is no notable difference between the Mr. Goldenfold Prime and Mr. Goldenfold (C-131). He allegedly eats poop, as shown in Pickle Rick. He is also capable of surviving an alien invasion, as shown in "The Rickshank Rickdemption". He does not appear in "Solaricks" but is certainly killed along with the rest of the world by "Mr. Frundles".  Mr. Goldenfold (Merged Dimension) Mr. Goldenfold (Merged Dimension) is almost no different from Mr. Goldenfold Prime and Mr. Goldenfold (C-131).  Mr. Goldenfold (Parmesan Dimension) TBA Appearance: Mr. Goldenfold is an African-American man with a mustache and black, balding hair. He is always seen wearing a yellow v-neck sweater and an orange undershirt with a grey tie. Personality: Goldenfold's personality is best described as: extremely incompetent, phallic, highly naïve, mentally unstable, creepy, oblivious and sometimes quick tempered. Mr. Goldenfold seems to have some anger issues, being quickly and easily enraged. His anger often leads to him screaming at his students and flailing wildly. He has very low opinions of his students and is virtually always upset with them. Goldenfold Prime, Goldenfold (C-131) and Goldenfold (Merged Dimension) are shown to have little to no care for their jobs. They usually just give random grades to students for no reason. An example is when Morty insulted Mr. Goldenfold after Goldenfold thought everyone was bored. However, Goldenfold (Parmesan Dimension) is shown to be more caried about his job, as he wanted to punish Morty Prime for listening to music in class, and also because he wanted Ice T to do his homework. In the "Pilot" episode, Morty unknowingly fondled Mr. Goldenfold Prime's chest while dreaming of grabbing Jessica's boobs. Mr. Goldenfold seemed to derive some pleasure from this. He also seems to have repressed sexual feelings towards Summer which he hides within the dreams of his dream version of Mrs. Pancakes. Episode Appearances: Mr. Goldenfold Prime "Pilot" "Lawnmower Dog" "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!" "Rick Potion #9" Mr. Goldenfold (C-131) "Something Ricked This Way Comes" "Get Schwifty" "The Ricks Must Be Crazy" (cameo) "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez" "The Wedding Squanchers" (cameo) "The Rickshank Rickdemption" "Pickle Rick" "Rest and Ricklaxation" "The ABC's of Beth" "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" Mr. Goldenfold (Merged Dimension) "The Vat of Acid Episode" Mr. Goldenfold (Parmesan Dimension) "JuRicksic Mort" ”Analyze Piss” ”Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie” "Fear No Mort" (Fear Hole) (cameo) Quotes: Mr. Goldenfold Prime "Morty! What are you doin' to me! ....Five more minutes of this and I'm gonna get mad. *bites his lip in enjoyment* It's not my fault this is happening." ("Pilot") "The name's not 'buddy'. It's Goldenfold. Nice to wheat you!" ("Lawnmower Dog") "Morty! The principal and I were talking, and we're both insecure enough to agree to a three-way!" ("Rick Potion #9") Mr. Goldenfold (C-131) "Some voids can't be filled with Jamba Juice." ("Something Ricked This Way Comes") "My lust... My greed... I deserve this!" ("Something Ricked This Way Comes") (in the distance) "I haven't learned a thing!" ("Something Ricked This Way Comes") Mr. Goldenfold (Merged Dimension) I'll be honest with you. During spring break, I attended a renaissance fair and fell in love with a buxom hand-ax jugger half my age. ("The Vat of Acid Episode") Mr. Goldenfold (Parmesan Dimension) "Last time, the alliens made me lick all the toilet seats. That's right. Made me. I see that look on your faces." ("JuRicksic Mort") "Oh, Lord. I was a fly! So unburdened, so free of shame! Welp, I'm officially cured!" ("Analyze Piss") "And, young lady, whoever told you numbers can't be emotional did you wrong. On Earth, numbers get down. Sometimes even with letters." (”Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie”) Trivia: In "Something Ricked This Way Comes", it is revealed that he used to be married but has since divorced. He frequently attempts to cure the pain of his loneliness with Jamba Juice. In "Pickle Rick", it is revealed that he has an addiction to eating feces, called "Coprophagia". In "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat", it is shown that he has a larva counterpart that was eaten by the Smith Family. In ”Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie”, when Mr. Goldenfold and Water T were arguing, Water T mentioned that he helped Goldenfold's children get into college. This confirms that at least Mr. Goldenfold (Parmesan Universe) has children.  