Naruto Smith is the gigantic biological offspring of Summer Smith and Morty Smith. He was created when one of Morty's sperm, Sticky, became augmeted by one of Rick Sanchez's experiments that went wrong and combined with a giant Summer's egg.  He is nicknamed the "Giant Incest Baby", and later the "Giant Incest Monster". History: He first appeared in "Rickdependence Spray", created when Morty's genetically-enhanced super-sized sperm "Sticky" entered Summer's enlarged ovum. He is currently in space. Later prior to Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion it was revealed that he was captured by the government and taken to a secret base on Mars where Summer was abducted by agents in order for her to help them make Naruto into a human weapon, but upon spending time with him, Summer bonded with her son and helped him escape. Later, Summer, along with Morty, Jerry and Beth, rode on to Naruto in order to save Rick when the previous owners of the Gotron Ferrets attempted to reclaim their rides and kill Rick, only for Naruto to defeat them and save his Great-Grandfather. Appearance: He is a gigantic, red-haired child (the same color as Summer), with his right eye bigger than the left. He has chin length hair and light skin. He wears a diaper colored to look like the United States flag and broken cuffs around his right wrist and left ankle after escaping a United States government facility. Appearances: "Rickdependence Spray" "Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion" "Bethic Twinstinct" (mentioned) Trivia: In the episode "Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion", Summer names him Naruto after helping him escape from Mars.His name is a reference to Naruto Uzumaki, the main protagonist of the Naruto series. His name is a reference to Naruto Uzumaki, the main protagonist of the Naruto series. It is unknown how he is able to survive in space.This might be because of the processes that mutated Morty's sperm and/or enlarged Summer's egg.In "Solaricks", it is revealed that Rick had child-proofed Morty to such an extent that the former was able to breathe in space, thus it may be possible that Naruto inherited his ability or advanced technological protection from his father. This would make sense if Morty was given a device that alters his physiology to be able to survive without oxygen. This might be because of the processes that mutated Morty's sperm and/or enlarged Summer's egg. In "Solaricks", it is revealed that Rick had child-proofed Morty to such an extent that the former was able to breathe in space, thus it may be possible that Naruto inherited his ability or advanced technological protection from his father. This would make sense if Morty was given a device that alters his physiology to be able to survive without oxygen. He is the second son of Morty after Morty Jr. Naruto Smith from Dimension C-131 is most probably dead by because of the Mr. Frundles incident.Space Beth indirectly mentions him in "Bethic Twinstinct", probably meaning that in the Parmesan dimension, he also exists. Space Beth indirectly mentions him in "Bethic Twinstinct", probably meaning that in the Parmesan dimension, he also exists. 