 Nick was a mentally deranged insane asylum patient who served as the secondary antagonist of Forgetting Sarick Mortshall. He was voiced by Nick Rutherford. Biography:: The original Nick presumably became a Cronenberg in the Cronenberged Dimension. Nick was a mentally deranged insane asylum patient who was committed sometime after attempting to steal Rick's Portal Gun. While attempting to steal Rick's Portal Gun, Nick accidentally spilled some portal fluid on himself, leaving him with a permanent portal on his thigh. Sometime after these events, Morty accidentally spilled some portal fluid on his hand while attempting to hide his use of the Portal Gun from Rick. This portal ended up connecting with the one on Nick's thigh, introducing Nick and Morty to each other. Morty talked with Nick about his issues with Rick, leading Nick to advise him to break free of Rick. Morty took Nick's advice to heart and decided to take his bike (which Rick transformed into a spaceship) to meet Nick in person. When Morty finally arrived at his destination, it is revealed that Nick is in fact a patient at a mental asylum. Morty ended up swiping a key and passing it through the portal on his hand, allowing Nick to break free of his handcuffs. Afterwards, Nick and Morty broke out of the mental asylum by utalising their respective portals in a tactical manner. Following these events, Nick and Morty coined themselves the "Portal Boys." Nick and Morty then decided to enact revenge on Rick, travelling to his garage and trashing it (along with help from Jerry). While trashing Rick's garage, Nick and Morty ended up stumbling upon an early prototype of Rick's Portal Gun, which they subsequently steal. However, the Portal Gun was empty and required portal fluid in order to operate. In an effort to obtain portal fluid, Nick and Morty then kidnapped an alien who had been stealing crystals from the people of Kuntak and giving them to Rick, believing that the people of Kuntak would give them portal fluid in return. When it turned out that the people of Kuntak didn't have any portal fluid, Nick got violent and attacked them. Morty managed to escape from Nick, but Nick ended up catching up to him by a set of train tracks. Nick threatened to murder Morty for abandoning him, telling him that he would "make his life a living hell." Morty refused to listen to Nick and instead stuck his hand under the wheels of a passing train, ripping it off. Morty then explained to Nick that Rick was his one and only partner, before dropping his severed hand into Nick's portal. The portal on Morty's hand and the portal on Nick's thigh ended up cancelling each other out, causing Nick to subsequently get sucked out of existence. Appearance: Nick wore a light blue mental patient outfit with a white undershirt and shoes. He had pale skin and curly black hair, along with a small amount of stubble. He also had dark circles under his eyes, implying that he was sleep deprived. Personality: At first glance Nick came off as a kind and understanding person who had been swindled by Rick after having drinks with him. In reality, Nick was actually a cruel, sadistic, and murderous person who was only using Morty to his advantage. Relationships: Nick became Morty's best friend during the events of Forgetting Sarick Mortshall, but it was later revealed that Nick was only using Morty to his advantage. It is also alluded to that Nick was an acquaintance of Rick at one point. However, this could also have been a lie that Nick was using to emotionally manipulate Morty. Episode appearances: "Forgetting Sarick Mortshall" Trivia: Nick was speculated by many fans prior to the release of this episode to be Rick's ex-partner named Kyle, who is mentioned by Mr. Nimbus in Mort Dinner Rick Andre. Nick claims that he drank at the same bar as Rick, implying that he may have met Rick sometime around the events of Amortycan Grickfitti. Nick's name is the same as his voice actor, Nick Rutherford.  References: Rick & Morty: Who Plays Morty's New Friend Nick 