Previous Leon is a creature that injects venom into his prey that causes them to go into a "previously on" spiral. His venom makes his victim think more and more of their life is behind them and feeds on their released potential before eventually killing them. Biography:: At some point before Full Meta Jackrick, Previous Leon caught Rick and Morty and injected them with toxins, causing them to go into a previously on spiral. Rick and Morty counteract Leon's toxins baiting him to confront them. They then grab Leon forcing him to carry Rick and Morty through the opening title sequence to escape the previously on spiral. After escaping, Leon is grabbed by Rick who tells Morty not to listen to his "pointless self-aware bullshit" to which he responds that it is cool, not pointless. Leon escapes and tries to kill Morty with a handgun but is tackled by Rick before flying away. He is shot by Rick wounding him, but escapes back to the Meta Layer through a hole in the fourth wall. Rick and Morty then go to the Meta Layer to find Leon but he reveals himself when Rick is complaining about the Meta Layer. He then tumbles down a hill and is cornered by a cave and begins to pray. Morty doesn't want to kill him because he feels bad for him but Rick retorts that Hitler was Catholic. Jesus Christ then descends from the sky and picks up Leon, who is initially happy to be rescued but Story Lord then reveals that he was the bait. Jesus then rips off Leon's wings rendering him unable to fly. When Jesus is about to finish beating up Rick and Morty, Leon poisons him causing Jesus to go into his own previously on spiral. He eventually sucks Jesus dry of his potential killing him. Afterwards, he regrows his wings before being knocked out by Rick. He is dragged to the headquarters of the Self-Referential Six so that Rick can use him as an excuse to gain access. Rick tells Miss Lead that she should lock him up in their detention center. Leon wakes up and reveals that Rick only wants the prisoner. Leon is rescued by Joseph Campbell, much to Rick's displeasure. Morty asks Leon to get them back home and he obliges. Rick goes on his previously on spiral and eventually builds a device that will allow Rick and Morty to get back home and out of Meta Reality.  Appearance: Previous Leon is a green bug-like creature with two pairs of wings and 2 antennae, but has two arms and two legs. He also has a long snout which he uses to inject his toxins into his victims. His snout is curled up when not in use. He wears a red and white jacket with the letters P and L on it. Personality: Relationships: Episode appearances: "Full Meta Jackrick" Trivia: His name is a pun on the phrase "previously on."   References 