 Prosecutor Observer is a supporting antagonist in "Rickfending Your Mort". He was tasked with proving that Rick and Morty are evil. Personality: The prosecutor was very enthusiastic about proving Rick and Morty are guilty. Even after a fight broke out in the trial, he still wanted to play clips. He doesn’t seem to care about the death of his brother. History: The Observers put Rick and Morty on trial after they accidentally killed the Audit Observer. Rick claims he and Morty already did something like this before. The lawyer observer shows up and uses his powers to replay the Giant Court scene in order to confirm Rick’s words. The prosecutor sees this as proof that the duo tend to repeat their mistakes. Morty comments on how the prosecutor sounds like the deceased observer. The prosecutor reveals that the victim is his brother, and agrees that he had an annoying voice. The prosecutor then plays a clip of Morty being given guns by Rick but misusing them all due to his stupidity, claiming that this proves Rick and Morty are consistently dumb. The lawyer tries to defend the duo, but all of his clips end up helping the prosecution instead. To allow him to defend himself, the Observers gave Rick a device that controls the courtroom, and he used it to play a clip of him being a leg, much to their annoyance. The Judge condemns Rick and Morty to execution, but Rick is able to cancel it as he still had the device. Rick claims that, in terms of morality, the Observers are no better than him, and uses the device to play clips of them refusing to help a drowning alien, selling pirated movies and paying homeless aliens to fight. The Judge claims that only some of them are bad, and one of them brings up that the Judge slept with Tom’s wife, something he proudly admits while taunting Tom. Tom angrily attacks and kills the Judge, prompting a fight between all Observers. The prosecutor fights the lawyer and throws him across the room. Rick and Morty use this as an opportunity to escape. The prosecutor is last seen yelling that he still has more clips to show. It’s unknown if he survived the commotion.