 Revolio Clockberg, Jr., more commonly referred to as Gearhead, is a recurring character who first appeared in the episode "Ricksy Business". His character is a representative of "social gearheads", people who know a lot of technical information, in Gearhead's case, it's information about the Gear Wars and engineering. Despite his and Rick's shaky relationship, they're still able to maintain a friendship, with Gearhead being invited to multiple parties hosted by Rick. Biography:: Gearhead is first seen as a guest at Rick and Summer's party, explaining the Gear Wars to Rick, as Morty anxiously paces the house. To escape talking to Gearhead, Rick calls Morty over and uses him as a distraction. Gearhead then begins to tell Morty about the Gear Wars. Later in the episode, he is seen playing a musical instrument similar to a lute to an admiring crowd, one of the onlookers being Jessica. He makes his second appearance in "Mortynight Run", where he helped fix Rick's Shipsaucer. But when he found out that the "Fart" he was holding hostage was worth millions, Gearhead betrayed Rick and Morty, and threatened to kill him. He reveals that he never liked Rick, and that "Gearhead" is a racial epithet. Rick kicks him in his "gearsticles", and takes them out, switching them with the gears in his mouth. He appeared again at the end of "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender", as a guest at Rick's party for Noob-Noob. Rick apparently ended his feud with Gearhead after getting high with him. In the post-credits scene for the episode, Gearhead uses Morty's Vindicators jacket to pick up college girls. When an actual monster appears, he ditches the jacket, and flees. While trying to escape he trips and is dismembered after hitting the ground. Gearhead briefly appears in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort", appearing in a flashback inside Birdperson's mind at a funeral of his brother, Geardude. Rick also reveals that the core reason why he and Birdperson hang out with him is because he's their fallen comrade's brother. Gearhead makes another appearance in "How Poopy Got His Poop Back", when Rick gathers some of his friends for an intervention for Mr. Poopybutthole, with Gearhead being the first one to be recruited. After gathering the group fully, they depart to the F#%K YOU'S bar, where they begin drinking and partying, afterwards going through several other locations, eventually meeting with Hugh Jackman and moving their party to his house. After deciding that the crew is going to find Amy, Mr. Poopybutthole's ex-wife, Gearhead and others proceed to get to her house where they discover that she's having an affair with Predator P.I., who goes after them when they get spotted. During a confrontation with the Predator, Gearhead tries to talk himself out of the situation but instead gets his head torn off and his "gearsticles" shoved in his mouth once again, commenting on how it became a recurring occurrence for him. After resolving the situation, Gearhead takes a fading pill and goes back to the Gear System, where he gets a spinal replacement. Appearance: Gearhead is a gear-person with a thick transparent pink build, and shoulders. He is bald, previously having a set of short purple hair, only remainder of it being his purple unibrow nowadays. He has orange and yellow gears that make up his organs, ears, and mouth. Although his gearsticles are a light shade of blue, and may or may not currently reside in his mouth. He also wears a blue collar, boots and gloves.  Episode appearances: "Ricksy Business" "Mortynight Run" "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" (Fascist Version; Non-Speaking Cameo) "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort" (Non-Speaking Cameo) "How Poopy Got His Poop Back" Gear Head Trivia: Name comically-inspired by real-life actor/politician Antonio Sabato, Jr. Revolio Clockberg Jr. Is very similar to a character from the Masters of the Universe franchise called "Roboto" (the gears turning inside a clear torso are similar to the action figure). Gearhead, and his people in general, also bear some physical similarities to the popular vintage toy "Mr. Machine." Particularly, the transparent torso with visible mechanical "innards," solid colored limbs and head. Gearhead owns a repair shop in Gear World, the Cogspot. Although he was quick to point it out as a racial term, Rick could have easily meant Gearhead as the term used for someone who is an expert on cars, and is very knowledgeable about how to modify and fix them. Possibly as an off-handed compliment on his job as an engineer. Gearhead's instrument may have been inspired by the Star Trek: The Original Series episode "The Way to Eden". Gearhead keeps a copy of Queer Gear, which appears to be a gay magazine, in his workspace.  He is also seen flirting with college-aged girls in "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender." This suggests that he may be bisexual. It is revealed in the Rickstaverse mini game, Bang Box, that Gearhead can shred people into a pool of blood with his gearsticles, if they come into contact with someone while they are turning. In Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat, a Gearhead from another dimension was killed by Fascist Morty.  References ↑ http://www.theoldrobots.com/MrMachine.html ↑ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mr._Machine