Rhett Caan, thought to be formerly Brett Caan, is a being from Meta Reality with a variant of the power Vocifery which makes anything he says the truth, or more accurately he has the power to make it so that things were always a certain way. He is a minor antagonist in the episode Full Meta Jackrick.  Biography:: Prior to the events of Full Meta Jackrick, Rhett Caan (then known as Brett Caan, as he had not yet retconned his name) was captured and imprisoned by the Self-Referential Six for an unknown amount of time, where he was kept within a cell made of walls that depict various sports imagery, due to his powers only working on plot elements. Initially planning on using Rhett Caan in his plan, Rick is forced to release him prematurely when confronted by the Self-Referential Six. Rhett Caan then battles his captors himself; killing Connie TinuityError after retconning her weakness to be death by coffee, and retconning Mr. Twist to have been born without bones, before isolating the fortress and turning it into an orange. Appearance: Personality: Due to his immense power of being able to "retcon" the attributes of nearly everything in existence, Rhett Caan sports a calm, confident, emotionless demeanor . He is quick to threaten Rick, a powerful individual in his own right, and has no qualms about cruelly dispatching his enemies by using creative albeit overly-cruel means. Rhett Caan is shown to be rather sadistic and ruthless to those who stand in his way, such as when he smirked while retconning Mr. Twist to be born without bones, which while not outright fatal, would have made whatever remained of Mr. Twist's life agonizing and difficult. Relationships: Rick is implied to have met Rhett Caan in the past, where he knew of both his powers as well as where he was imprisoned. Despite Rhett's suggesting that Rick had always trusted him, the scientist is quick to refute the claim, and cautiously proposes the conditions of freeing him. Rhett then threatens Rick, but before the two could argue, they are confronted by the Self-Referential Six. Rick then chooses to release Rhett prematurely rather than fight the Six, whereupon Caan leaves Rick and Morty alone and easily dispatches his captors. At some point in the past, Rhett Caan was captured and imprisoned by the Self-Referential Six, possibly due to his imperviousness to their powers as well as the extremely-threatening nature of his own powers. When freed by Rick, Rhett Caan wasted no time in brutally dispatching his former captors, outright killing Connie TinuityError before removing Mr. Twist's bones. He then isolates the fortress to prevent their escape, before retconning it into an orange. It is unknown what he does to the surviving members after Rick and Morty flee. Powers and abilities: Rhett Caan has the power to manipulate the narrative, making "things always be otherwise", such as making it so that Connie TinuityError was always able to be killed with coffee, or making it so that Mr. Twist was born without bones, or even making everything disappears if he says "there is nothing beyond this place" or something of the like. Trivia: His name is an obvious pun on Retcon. Due to his power, he was never actually named Brett. Despite stating he "has the power to make it so that things were always a certain way", the effect of his power doesn't actually retroactively change things, such as when Mr. Twist suddenly loses his bones mid-flight. Likewise, his powers appear to only activated when he speaks, rather than in thoughts.   References 