 Rick D-99 was a member of SEAL Team Ricks who was sent by the Citadel of Ricks to assassinate Rick Sanchez (C-137). He was clearly among the toughest and most dangerous Ricks as he was part of their elite assassination unit. His body was used by Rick C-137 in his elaborate plot to destroy the Galactic Federation. He was blown up when C-137 took control of a higher-class Rick and ordered another Rick to blow him up. Appearance: Like the other members of SEAL Team Ricks, D-99 had a black line painted under each eye and wore a brown, robotic suit. Also like the other members, he had a very distinct hair style from regular Ricks by sporting a mohawk, but still had the same hair colour. Biography:: Rick was serving as a part of SEAL Team Ricks when the Citadel of Ricks found Morty and Summer Smith in the Prime Dimension after having detected a compromised Portal gun, and dispatched SEAL Team Ricks to infiltrate the Galactic Federal Prison and assassinate Rick (C-137) to avoid their secrets being leaked. SEAL Team Ricks stormed the prison interrogation room right after Rick (C-137) managed to transfer his mind into Cornvelious Daniel and was about to leave. The SEALs gun down all the Gromflomites in the room (except Rick) before D-99 personally shoots Rick (C-137)'s body through the head, killing Cornvelious Daniel instead. Once Rick D-99 looks away, however, Rick (C-137) (in Convelious Daniel's body) is able to direct the Brainalyzer at D-99 and swap their minds just before another of the SEAL Ricks shoots Convelious Daniel's body, killing D-99. What follows is C-137 in D-99's body taking out the whole SEAL Team before escaping. Later, Rick returns to the Citadel in a SEAL Team spaceship. Not willing to talk to anyone there except for someone with high clearance, Commander in Chief Rick scornfully opens the communication channel. Rick swiftly swaps their minds over the comm link using the prison's networked, commandeered Brainalyzer. Now in the Citadel, Rick orders a militia-worker at the Citadel to blow up the spaceship he was in, destroying the last remains of D-99. He later makes a cameo in "Rickmurai Jack" in Rick C-137's flashback, where he appears on the wall with many photos of many Ricks belonging to the future Council alliance, including himself. Rick C-137 later went on a rampage killing those Ricks, but considering he remained alive many years later, Rick either lost him in his blind rage or the Rick D-99 seen in the show is just an identical character. 