 Richard Daniel "Rick" Sanchez of Dimension C-137, commonly referred to as Rick C-137, is one of the two titular protagonists of Rick and Morty, alongside Morty.   He is a megagenius scientist whose alcoholism and reckless, nihilistic behavior are sources of concern for "his daughter's" family, as well as the safety of her son, Morty. Upon the series' inception, Rick's mysterious origins and mental health were large sources of speculation.    It has since been revealed that in Dimension C-137, Rick was a humble scientist who was approached by Rick Prime with the offer of interdimensional travel. When Rick turned down his offer, Rick Prime murdered Diane and Beth Sanchez, prompting Rick to invent portal technology and go on a lifetime hunt for revenge. This made Rick the only version of himself to actually invent interdimensional travel aside from Rick Prime.       Around the same time period, Rick joined the Rebellion alongside Birdperson and Squanchy and fought against the Galactic Federation. Afterwards, for several decades, Rick killed countless amounts of his alternate selves in his ongoing hunt for Rick Prime, before they surrendered and founded the Citadel of Ricks, with Rick overseeing its construction. He ultimately left the Citadel and landed in Rick Prime's original dimension, taking his place as the father of that dimension's Beth Smith and going on adventures with his new grandson, Morty.      As the series has progressed, Rick relocated yet again to another dimension, and has continuously committed more heinous acts that often leave many individuals dead and cause conflict with the Smith family. These include genocide, torture, and rape (see Criminal Record). Rick's morality has frequently come into question and many of the episodes shift Rick into a more antagonistic role.    Biography: While Rick's backstory remained shrouded in mystery for much of the series, it's clear that he always had a knack for science and invention, being able to rewire and fix a television around the age of 12. It wasn't until "Rickmurai Jack" where Rick's past is finally shown in great detail. The "totally fabricated" backstory shown in "The Rickshank Rickdemption" was mostly based on the truth and further hinted at in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort".  Prior to the beginning of the series, Rick had a fairly normal middle-class childhood and had developed an interest in tinkering with things at a young age. As an adult, he married a woman named Diane and they had a daughter, Beth. Rick eventually became a scientist who was struggling to invent teleportation. One day, he was visited by an alternate version of himself, who offered him the ability to travel to different realities, but Rick refused. Insulted by what he perceived as a lesser version of himself acting as though he was better, Rick Prime sent a bomb through a portal to kill Rick C-137's Diane and Beth. Rick grieved for an unknown period of time, before inventing his own portal gun and going on a quest for revenge. As more and more Ricks began hunting Prime for the same reason, Prime invented the Omega Device, throwing in a version of Diane to wipe out their wife across existence. Rick would spend the next few decades searching for the Rick who murdered his family. He eventually became a weapons dealer, trying to find parts for a device to help him track down the one who killed his family. Rick eventually met Birdperson at a festival, and formed rock band called "The Flesh Curtains" together with Squanchy. The three eventually formed the core of the resistance against the Galactic Federation, culminating in the Battle of Blood Ridge. After winning the battle, Rick offered Birdperson the chance to join him in his adventures throughout the multiverse, but Birdperson refused. Hurt by this, Rick left to continue his quest for revenge.  During this time, Rick murdered several of his alternate selves, all of which belonged to an unknown organization of Ricks, yet none of them were the Rick he was searching for. At this point, Rick had become depressed after failing to find his family's murderer and often used alcohol to numb his constant mental anguish. Eventually, the other Ricks banded together to try and stop the so-called "Rickest Rick". However, even this proved to be futile and Rick, yet again, murdered most of the alliance set on taking him down. Because of his unstoppable nature, the other Ricks eventually admitted defeat to Rick C-137, acknowledging him as their leader.  This would lead to the construction of the Citadel of Ricks as part of their truce. Rick also created the Central Finite Curve, which included only those universes where Rick is the smartest being, as it is assumed he did it to lock up Rick Prime—which he failed. Rick himself oversaw the construction process, but he soon left after it was built due to how the other Ricks wanted to run it, leaving it to be run by the Council of Ricks. Not yet ready to give up his request for revenge, Rick eventually found out where his family's killer originated from. After discovering that said Rick had abandoned his family, Rick crashed into the house of Prime's daughter who believed this Rick to be her original absent father. Rick then inserted himself into the family, hoping that Rick Prime target would return one day so he could kill him. This, of course, lead to the start of the series, where Rick has supposedly returned from his 20 year long absence. As of now, Rick is about 70 years old and currently resides in his room in the Smith house. He also uses the garage as partial living quarters. In the garage, he works on his inventions and science — for example, traveling to other dimensions, building various robots and devices, and causing general mayhem in different parts of the universe, be it dimensions, planets, or alternate realities. It was because of his meddling that he had to move to another dimension yet again, having turned the rest of humanity into Cronenbergs. A notable aspect of Rick's development is that as the series has progressed, Rick's god-like status has been moved to the forefront of the story. Many characters refer to him as the smartest man in the universe, whilst he himself has called himself a god and demonstrated his unstoppable nature. When invited to Birdperson and Tammy Guterman's wedding, the family was ambushed by the Galactic Federation. Though initially managing to escape, Rick turned himself in, seeing an opportunity to bring down the Federation from within. Though he was briefly inconvenienced by the Citadel trying to kill him to protect their secrets, Rick managed to turn the Federation and the Citadel on each other. Upon returning to Earth, Rick triumphantly revealed to Morty that he'd manipulated everything to have Beth divorce Jerry and make himself the dominant figure in the family and Morty's life. When Rick later offered to clone Beth so she could both live out her full potential but maintain her responsibilities to her children, she passed the final choice onto him. Unable to choose, Rick cloned Beth and sent one of them into space, wiping his and his daughters' memories of which was one the original Beth. The terrestrial Beth's worry about this though eventually led her to reconciling with Jerry, returning the family to how things were in Season 1. After he and Morty briefly fell out, Rick began travelling the universe with Two Crows, only to discover they were using him as a rebound for their own falling out with Crowscare. Insulted, Rick returned to his family, taking Morty to the Citadel to undo the effects of an aging serum. While there, Rick and Morty were ambushed by Evil Morty who used Rick's knowledge to punch through the Central Finite Curve and escape into the larger multiverse, destroying the Citadel in the process. Before the station collapsed, Rick and Morty managed to escape in Mortytown, detaching its saucer from the larger structure but leaving them stranded without portal travel or a spaceship. Rick and Morty were eventually rescued by Space Beth who brought them back to Earth. Rick attempted to reset the portal index but accidentally reset all portal travellers, sending them all to their original realities. Trusting Summer and the Beths to fix the problem, Rick found himself back in Dimension C-137, speaking to his AI of Diane Sanchez. Restoring his backup spacecraft, Rick flew through the rift Evil Morty had created to try and reach Morty. As he flew to the Prime Dimension, the Diane AI reasoned that if Rick had been reset, Rick Prime would also have been reset and likely having just as much trouble leaving. Using a sample of Morty's DNA, Rick tracked down Rick Prime to his lair, telling Morty the truth about Rick Prime's background and status as Morty's real grandfather. Upon arriving at the lair, a recording of Rick Prime revealed a glass tube purported to contain Rick Prime or perhaps a clone of him before kill-bots are unleashed. Rick went on the offensive, still wanting revenge for what Rick Prime did to his family, but Morty convinces him it's no longer worth it as Rick now has a family in a different dimension to worry about, and Morty considers Rick C-137 his grandfather. The two left, unaware that Rick Prime had, in fact, been the one in the tube. Upon reuniting the whole family however, Season 2 Jerry released Mr. Frundles, damning Dimension C-131, forcing the family to move to the Parmesan dimension. Rick put off repairing portal travel for a while until he was upstaged by the Dinosaurs repairing the Central Finite Curve. After Morty brushed off Rick in favour of joining the Knights of the Sun, an insulted Rick rededicated himself to hunting Rick Prime, creating RickBot to keep Morty distracted. Scavenging tech from Prime's lair, Rick managed to locate all of Prime's decoys across the multiverse. After RickBot had been killed, Rick conceded that he should have been honest with Morty and invited him into the hunt for Rick Prime. Rick eventually decided to "basically [frack]" the Central Finite Curve to flush out Rick Prime, killing his decoys one by one. When these shockwaves reached Evil Morty, beyond the Curve, Evil Morty suggested filtering for probability stasis. When this brought only one version of Rick Prime, Rick hesitated, suspecting a trap, leading to an argument with Evil Morty. When an annoyed Morty killed the Prime clone, it transported them to a box full of alternate Ricks, all of whom were also hunting Rick Prime. Rick and the Mortys managed to survive the trap, Rick using the black portal fluid to finally track down Rick Prime. Finding a rebuilt Omega Device, which Prime used to kill Slow Mobius, Rick and Evil Morty fought Rick Prime only for him to defeat them both. At the last moment though, Evil Morty managed to swap shirts with Morty, Prime's "original grandson", lowering Prime's guard so Evil Morty could incapacitate him, disable his backups and steal the Omega Device's blueprints. Resuscitating Rick, Evil Morty allowed him to finally take revenge on Rick Prime, Rick beating his nemesis to death. Now having the Omega Device's blueprints, Evil Morty left, warning Rick and Morty to leave him alone. With Prime dead, the reality of his family's death finally hit Rick, leaving him with no purpose in life. The death of Prime left Rick in a funk for a while but Morty eventually managed to shake him out of it, the two resuming their adventures. Appearance Rick is a lanky, old man. He has long limbs and is very skinny. He has spiky grey-blue hair with a bald spot on the back of his oblong-shaped head, as well as a prominent unibrow of the same color. He has a droopy nose. His tanned grey skin is wrinkly, with bags under his eyes and a pressure fold above his unibrow that follows its position. He also has laugh lines on both sides of his mouth and wrinkles below each of his ass cheeks.  He almost always wears a white lab coat with a turquoise undershirt underneath it, along with brown pants, a dark brown belt with a yellow buckle, and black shoes. Rick is shown to keep a drinking flask and his Portal Gun in each pocket of his lab coat. He is also occasionally seen with some green spill on his mouth, showing up mainly when he is drunk, or during a rare chance where he throws up. Rick speaks in a rambling, stammering manner that is often interrupted by belching and gagging, particularly when drunk or high.  Interestingly, while he remains nearly identical throughout the series, Rick does not occupy his original body. In the Season 3 premiere, what is assumed to be his original, biological body is killed by SEAL Team Rick whilst Rick was occupying the body of Cornvelious Daniel. He then took over Rick D-99, before eventually jumping into Commander Rick's body. Rick occupied this body for a while, until he was killed in "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" and had to create a new clone body, which he currently inhabits. Throughout all of this, Rick's appearance remained unchanged as most Ricks look identical, although he briefly wore different outfits appropriate to the position of the Ricks whose minds he took over. Rick also sports a large amount of cybernetic enhancements. Most of Rick's body is fully upgraded, with various gadgets built in to assist him in perilous situations. From what has been shown so far, we can see all of Rick's limbs, his left eye, many of his internal organs and parts of his brain have either been enhanced or replaced entirely with cybernetic parts. When Rick is torn apart by Bigfoot in "Mort: Ragnarick", his leg bones are completely exposed, suggesting Rick has long since replaced his entire skeleton with a metal replica, which presumably houses many of the gadgets often seen coming out of his body. Personality Rick is a genius scientist, capable of creating complex scientific inventions, including brain-enhancing helmets, dream-invading devices, portals to several different dimensions, cloning technology, cybernetic implants, various energy weapons and force fields, and the world's first amusement park inside the body of a living human. His brilliance can be muddled by his jaded personal views and his alcoholic tendencies. Rick is easily bored and does not do well with routine. When his curse removing store in the episode "Something Ricked This Way Comes" started requiring real work, Rick simply lit the whole store on fire and abandoned it. He regularly goes to other dimensions to harvest resources and will often willingly kill aliens to get them. He is willing to be extremely brutal such as when people betray him or his life or those close to him are in danger. He is usually portrayed as homicidal and having a large disregard for life, enough that he came close to bombing the world with neutrinos while drunk. He was shown to find killing fun during the Purge and was even willing to kill Morty's half-Gazorpian son due to the child's danger to everyone and unstable nature. This does not make him completely heartless, however, as he has been shown to be shocked, startled or annoyed by the loss of life that he deems unnecessary, foolish, or unreasonable. He was annoyed at Morty for letting Fart live, resulting in a chase with local police that cost many bystanders their lives. In addition to that, he was panicked when Unity destroyed an entire city that Rick thought still had people in it since he was unsure if Summer and Morty were there or not. He also was shocked and upset by people he was close to dying or nearly dying, such as when Mr. Poopybutthole was shot and he ran to his side in fear for the latter's life. When Bird Person was killed by Tammy, Rick flies into a rage, mowing down multiple Federation troops. In "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate", Rick gasps when seeing Jerry being shot several times, and left mutilated. During the time of the Festival, he only watched the killing for a few short seconds before becoming overwhelmed by the violence and vomiting. Later, when helping Arthricia get revenge against the upper class, he felt he had done enough killing and began to find it gratuitous. In the past, Rick was a "hero" like Space Beth but eventually stopped, deeming it a “phase”. In Unmortricken, upon witnessing the death of his uncle, Slow Mobius, an enraged Rick would attack his uncle's murderer, later killing him. Contrary to popular belief, Rick is not a nihilist. Although his commonly-stated viewpoint on life may be the typical nihilistic idealism that "nothing has meaning", he doesn't always put his money where his mouth is. Rick expresses love and emotion for his family and lovers on an almost episodic basis. Plot relevant instances include "The ABC's of Beth", which proves his fatherly love for Beth and "Auto Erotic Assimilation", where he's being dumped by Unity made him depressed enough to cry. Rick frequently reminds people that he's above everything that could hold meaning or value to him and made "I don't give a fuck!" his new catchphrase in "Ricksy Business", but this is all a mask. Rick is shown to care about maintaining relationships with others and holds a sentimental value of his family. Rick has the tendency to be possessive and dominating of Morty, believing the boy to be his own personal helper. This doesn't prevent Rick from genuinely caring about Morty. He occasionally uses his own inventions to improve his grandson's life, such as invading the dreams of Mr. Goldenfold to help raise his math grades, though this could have been a tactic for Morty to skip more school to go on adventures with Rick . Rick also demonstrates being fairly protective of Morty, as shown in the episode "Meeseeks and Destroy", where he eventually sets aside his cynicism to allow Morty to have a positive adventure, and abruptly kills Mr. Jellybean as the two are leaving the fantasy world because of the previous attempted rape on Morty. He even tried to sacrifice himself for Morty in A Rickle in Time and accepted death, that is until he saw a way out of dying. He cried when seeing pictures of Morty and remembering Morty as a newborn reaching out to him, when he was held captive by Evil Rick, causing Evil Rick to mock him for his irrational attachment for Morty. Nonetheless, to his core, Rick's love or at least apathy for Morty only goes so far as he can throw him under the carpet. The numerous adventures where he constantly hurts and abuses Morty verbally, undermines his achievements, physically bullies him, forces him to make unethical and traumatizing actions and completely breaks down his confidence and self-worth have pushed Morty to several breaking points. In The Rickshank Rickdemption, Morty shoots Rick after being berated by his grandfather and sister as a screw-up, though that was Rick's plan. However, unbeknownst to him was that Morty had the intention to kill and did not know the gun had a fake shot. By season 5, Rick acknowledges how unhealthy his relationship with his grandson is and replaces him in Forgetting Sarick Mortshall with two crows. It started as a exaggerated joke to once again take Morty down a peg, but he claims that the fact the two birds prove as useful on adventures as Morty, Rick states that in actuality Morty's worth is no more than his new sidekicks. However, Rick does reunite with Morty in the last episode when he discovers he served as the crows' rebound, not the other way around. Ironically this gave him a brief moment of the insignificance he makes Morty feel in comparison to him. However, once Evil Morty reveals himself in Rickmurai Jack and Morty is offered a choice between helping Rick who was pinned down or join his evil counterpart, he chose to help his grandpa. Rick even told Morty that in their situation, Evil Morty had the best position. Once Evil Morty accomplished his goal in destroying the one thing that gave Ricks their control and dominance in each respective universe, Rick and Morty barley escaped the exploding Citadel. Rick, lost for words and shocked, lost his ability to use portal travel and was no longer the smartest being in his universe. Yet, he had attained a newfound bond with his grandson. Rick and Morty have a strong bond, even though their relationship is strained due to Rick's cynicism, alcoholism, lack of conventional morality, and his tendency to push aside other members of the Smith family. Rick's carelessness is prevalent around Jerry, as he clearly doesn't respect him in any sense, and his relationship with Beth can be tumultuous at times. In "Raising Gazorpazorp" and "Something Ricked This Way Comes", Summer tags along on some of Rick's adventures. Rick initially had very little interest in her, but over time as the two spent time together, they have begun to develop a closer bond. Rick is shown to have trouble taking orders from others. He is anti-totalitarian. As a result, Rick tends to dislike people with authority and government officials. He refuses to join the Council of Ricks, because he views them as a government. He also calls the guards at Intergalactic Customs "robots" and claims that he doesn't respect them, as he deems them bureaucrats and doesn't like "being told where to go and what to do". Rick also has a great dislike of standardized education, claiming that school "isn't a place for smart people" and a "waste of time", and insists that things such as studying and homework are pointless and stupid. He also thoroughly despise compromise as seen with the Night-people, who became frustrated with having to do the the chores that the Smith family didn't want to do awake. Particularly rinsing the dishes which was hard to take off hours later. Not only did Rick refuse the Night-Smiths request to clean the dishes better before sleeping the first time, but even after a long escalation and fight for control of day and night (which Rick lost), and the Night-people willing to have a truce in exchange for the earlier request, Rick chose to rather lose his free will than subjugate to their offer.  Rick claims to be atheistic, but holds seemingly contradictory beliefs on religion. At one point, he tells Summer at the breakfast table in the pilot, "There is no God" — yet in the "Anatomy Park" episode, he tells the family "Do you realize that Christ was born today? Jesus Christ our savior was born today-are you people even human? What kind of Christmas is this?" Although, this comment was most likely sarcastic. He also quickly recognizes Mr. Needful as "the devil", and when he's under the impression that he is going to die while one of the other sixty-three Ricks is chasing after Morty's lost collar, actually kneels and prays, "Please God, if there's a Hell, please be merciful to me" (significantly, when no one is around). However, when the 1/64th Rick succeeds, he retracts his statement yells "Fuck you God, not today, bitch!" So, this allusion to religion may have just been a sarcastic comment. When the Ricks recombine in the presence of Summer and Morty, he once again says "I did it! There is no God! In your face!" It's possible this is just due to Rick's ego and his complete confidence in his own abilities. In fact, in “Mort: Ragnarick”, Rick himself acknowledges that he is too atheistic to be channeled to any afterlife at all. Rick is most likely just atheistic making religious jokes and references, as, in "Never Ricking Morty," it is revealed that the most uncharacteristic act Rick would do is resort and pray to Jesus Christ, as it crashes the entire "story train"  Despite his general disregard for others, he is shown to harbor deep emotional pain and sorrow, especially when it comes to his romantic relationships, such as with his former wife, Diane, and Unity. In "Rickmurai Jack", it is revealed that Rick loved Diane dearly. Her death left a permanent mark on Rick, leading him to go on a decades-long quest for vengeance looking for the Rick who killed her. His inability to find the Rick responsible for her death has haunted him, causing him to become an alcoholic to cope with the pain and turning him into the nihilistic mad scientist he is now. Rick also carried a rather deep bond with Unity, as shown in "Auto Erotic Assimilation." During an eventful day with Unity's hive mind avatars, Rick leaves to quickly freshen up and returns to find Unity and all the planet's inhabitants gone, leaving behind a farewell note for Rick explaining that, while Unity enjoyed its time with him, they could not be together. Unity calls out the fact that Rick mentally controls people, whereas Unity physically controls people; when they are together, they bring out the worst in each other. They are too alike in the sense that they both turn others into mirror images of themselves (in Rick's case, he does so through bad influence rather than assimilation). Dejected, heartbroken, and alone, Rick returned home, where he was confronted by Beth over the alien hidden in the basement lair, and asked him to keep no more alien pets. To Beth's (and the whole family's) shock, Rick simply conceded and retreated to the garage, where he clumsily attempted suicide with a makeshift death ray. He first killed a small, Cronenberg-like creature he kept. Rick decides to euthanize the small alien. He thawed it out with a serum, comfortingly petting it as it cried out and screamed. He turned it to ash with the death ray before he sat down under it as it was about to fire again, only to pass out at the last moment, narrowly avoiding the ray as he flopped forward. He remained slumped over his workbench, passed out, for the majority of the day and night. Rick and Morty then visited Beta 7's world, where Unity is staying. Rick lashed out at Beta 7, insisting to see Unity again, but Beta 7 informs Rick that he's considered a "hostile entity" and threatened to attack the two unless they left. Rick reluctantly does, at Morty's urging to go to the movies. Perhaps the ultimate downfall to Rick, which Dr. Wong concluded was both an unstoppable force and an inescapable curse in Rick's mind, is his intellect. Contrary to the belief that he truly does not care nor view things with any meaning or worth, Rick, to his core, chooses to treat the world as such to push everyone and everything away. One example which made an impression on Rick was Tony, the person who intruded his secret toilet place. Tony deduced that Rick, like him, was a shy pooper by circumstance rather than nature. He, too, had lost his wife like Rick and said that their search for a safe place to defecate was a "pointless bid for control," an attempt to take control in a universe which "takes whatever it wants". Pushing this away, Rick yet again promised he would be dead if ever returned. When he discovered Tony died in a ski accident due to living life free after having met Rick, the man returned to his safe haven. It is then shown that Rick had created an elaborate trap to mock Tony if he sat down on the toilet again with holograms and speakers laughing and making fun of him. Instead, Rick sits down himself with a sad, depressed look while being ridiculed by his own recordings, accurately being dubbed "King of Shit" and "saddest piece of garbage in the entire cosmos." Clearly, Rick respected Tony despite pretending otherwise, as evidenced by sparing him thrice and cursing at the alien's father at the funeral for thinking Rick was a friend. Fittingly, Rick is the architect of his own destruction and author of his pain due to his behavior and (outwards) lack of compassion or apathy. Throughout season 4, Rick manages to alienate himself from evey single member of his family and loses control a significant number of times. Morty becomes independent from Rick from the first episode, completely obsessed with dying with Jessica shown from a crystal, Morty accidentally causes Rick to die and refuses to revive him until he is finished much to Rick's safety hologram's chagrin. Rick then has to endure an unending series of waking up in Operation Phoenix clones in other dimensions with "Fascist dystopias" as the default setting. Later on Morty demanded a dragon for helping Rick, which resulted in Rick trapped in a soul bond with the creature and having to escape a fantasy reality where his tech was powerless.  By the end, Morty had found a way to work with his sister as a team. Jerry, despite his predicament in the previous season, stays much more respected and loved in the family and even manages to help defeat Phoenix Person which had just brutally injured Rick and would have killed him. Furthermore, both Rick's real and cloned daughter work together as a team in "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri," coming to the conclusion that whether one of them is fake and the other one real, the fact remains the same: their father is awful just the same. Having suffered and been saved by his entire family, Rick attempts a bid for control by finally revealing which Beth is which. None of them are interested, however, as all of them benefit from the situation one way or another and just lose more respect for Rick when he reveals he erased his mind, so even he doesn't know. They all leave him and Summer says he just tries to succer them in since he has lost control over them. Isolated, Rick decides to see it either way and sees he made the Rickest choice he could: swapping the labels and turning his back while the AI placed then. Finally conceding and realizing what a despicable person he is, Rick only mutters "Holy shit I'm a terrible father" in complete defeat. He turns to Phoenix Person for comfort, but he sees that his friend is still angry and willing to attack, so he turns him off. Isolated and alone, Rick steps to the door but hesitates and instead goes to his chair and sits down, utterly empty of anyone. As of Season 6-7, Rick has apparently changed for the better and is actively working to become a more balanced person. He confides in Dr. Wong as a patient and seemingly regularly visits her for her professional opinion as a family therapist since the Pickle Rick incident.  In "Mort: Ragnarick", it is indirectly stated that Rick is neurodivergent, meaning he is either autistic (communication impairment), has ADHD (attention difficulty), bipolar disorder (abnormal mood swings), or obsessive-compulsive disorder (excessive obsessions leading to repetitive compulsions). Technically, this could also mean he has down syndrome (chromosome disorder), Williams syndrome (another chromosome disorder), dyscalculia (difficulty with math), dysgraphia (difficulty writing), dyspraxia (difficulty with coordination), Prader-Willi syndrome (metabolism disorder), social anxiety, or Tourette syndrome (repetitive, uncontrollable ticks), but these are unlikely, because he does not have distorted facial features, is a brilliant scientist canonically categorised as a super-genius, does not have demonstrated metabolistic abnormalities, and has never demonstrated physical or verbal ticks.  Originally, Rick's consumption of alcohol is presented more from a comedic viewpoint throughout the series' run, but in the Season 1 finale "Ricksy Business", Bird Person claims that Rick is in "great pain" (citing his catchphrase "Wubba Lubba Dub Dub!" as meaning "I am in great pain. Please help me." in Bird Person's language), and that he uses drugs and alcohol to numb himself. This is most likely due to his genius intelligence, nihilism, and the traumatizing effect that his continuous adventures may have on him, in the past and present (in "Rick Potion No. 9", Rick explains that the best method on how to deal with horrible events and outcomes is to "not think about it"). In "Rickmurai Jack", it's shown that Rick began drinking copious amounts of alcohol to deal with the death of his wife and daughter as well as his failure to enact revenge upon their killer. His substance abuse sparks up again in Rickfending Your Mort after the events of Unmortricken. Throughout his numerous adventures with Morty, Rick has been shown to be ready and willing to disregard rules, laws and social norms if it is necessary to complete a task or escape a dangerous situation. Season one has Rick resorting to assault, battery, vandalism, smuggling, corruption of a minor, home invasion, reckless endangerment, terrorist threats, indecent exposure and even murder and arson in order to get the job done. The most common crimes committed are driving (or flying, in Rick's case) under the influence, drug abuse, and public intoxication. In "The Wedding Squanchers," Rick is arrested by the Galactic Federation. His full criminal record is displayed on a monitor. Although in an alien language and unreadable, it is shown to be quite long. After he is placed under maximum security, another prisoner asks him "What are you in for?", to which Rick responds simply with "Everything". In "Mort Dinner Rick Andre", Rick is arrested by the police, though they were under the control of Mr. Nimbus.  Assault: In the pilot episode, Rick slaps a Smumpian in the face while fleeing from airport security, causing the Smumpian to cry. Rick also started beating up a member of the Galactic Federation in the episode "A Rickle in Time." Furthermore, in "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer," Rick has assaulted various others to gather information about Summer's whereabouts. Bioterrorism: In the episode "Rick Potion #9," Rick made a dysfunctional love potion that spread a flu-like virus to everyone in the world, which he tried to fix by making another virus including praying mantis DNA that caused them to rip apart and mutate into giant praying mantis monsters. He attempted to fix this, by using another potion, but this only made them mutate again, cronenberging the entire world. He couldn't fix the mutations in the end, and just left the dimension with Morty, leaving all of the mutated humans behind. Breaking and Entering (Burglary): In the episode "Lawnmower Dog," Rick and Morty snuck into Mr. Goldenfold's house while he was sleeping with the intent to brainwash him into giving Morty an A in math by invading Mr. Goldenfold's his dreams and incepting the idea. Cable Piracy: In the episodes "Rixty Minutes" and "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate," Rick used an interdimensional cable box to stream an infinite amount of TV channels to his own television and the intergalactic hospital television. Cannibalism: Whilst in a post-apocalyptic version of Earth Rick is offered human flesh to eat by a post-apocalypse survivor. In an effort to dodge Morty's line of questioning he eats the meat. He later begins feeding the Smith family spaghetti made from the insides of dead humans from another dimension. Child Abuse/Child Endangerment : In most episodes of the series, Rick takes Morty along with him on all of his adventures, sometimes against his will. He often endangers his life as well as leaving him traumatized and mentally scarred by exposing him to scary and horrible things, such as watching himself get killed and having to bury his own body or being forced to kill clones of his family. Morty is also the victim of lots of physical damage such as breaking his legs in three places. In the episode "Total Rickall", Rick was even seen pushing Morty down a stairwell, simply as a practical joke, in a flashback montage, along with other ways Rick has mistreated him. Corpse Mutilation: In "Pickle Rick", he ripped apart the bodies of multiple rats and cockroaches and reassembled them into a suit. Driving Under Influence: Rick is drunk throughout the majority of most episodes of Rick and Morty and he's seen driving the space cruiser while he's drunk. Most notably in the Pilot episode, when Rick was visibly intoxicated while he flew the space cruiser with Morty and it almost led to him destroying the world. Felony Murder: Through the course of their adventures, many people have died as a direct or indirect result of Rick's actions. These deaths were usually during the commission of various other serious crimes he was committing, including felony evasion, smuggling, fraud, etc. Rick has also induced Morty to kill people for him, such as making him shoot the security guards to aid their escape in the Pilot episode. Genocide: In the episode The Ricks Must Be Crazy, in order to keep the inhabitants of the microverse producing power for his spaceship, Rick smashes the container of the Miniverse. This causes the Miniverse, and the Teenyverse (a miniature universe within the Miniverse), and its two races of inhabitants to be wiped from existence. Grave robbing / Desecration: In One Crew over the Crewcoo's Morty, Rick takes Morty on an 'epic adventure' to rob the tomb of an alien. He later desecrates the grave of Benjamin Franklin in Rickfending Your Mort. Human Cloning: In the episode Big Trouble In Little Sanchez, it was revealed that Rick had been cloning and growing other versions of himself in vats in his bunker under the Smith Family garage. Although it remains unclear where cloning fits into Intergalactic law, it is at least illegal on Earth. It is also revealed that he cloned Beth in "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri". In "Rickmurai Jack" it is revealed he is aware of - and possibly involved with - the mass cloning of Mortys at the Citadel to serve as sidekicks to Ricks. Illegal Arms Dealing: In the episode "Mortynight Run", it was revealed that Rick has been selling weapons to a hitman for a long time, possibly also hiring him to kill various living beings. During a flashback in "Rickmurai Jack", a younger Rick sold large shipments of weapons to aliens in exchange for technology. Impersonation: When Rick's concoctions in the episode Rick Potion #9 mutated everyone on the planet not biologically related to Morty, the two traveled to a new dimension whose versions of them had just died in an explosion seconds before their arrival, and assumed their places as if nothing had happened. The corpses are currently still buried in the Smith's backyard. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", he took control over the minds of many Gromflomites and members of SEAL Team Ricks and pretended to be them. Kidnapping and False Imprisonment: In the episode "Auto Erotic Assimilation," it was revealed that Rick had kidnapped an alien and kept it imprisoned in the basement against its own will for an amount of time, so that he could perform multiple tests on him. Murder: Outside of all of the hostile aliens he's killed, Rick has killed multiple innocent beings too. In the episode Big Trouble In Little Sanchez, he ran around with an axe and killed several living versions of himself at different ages, including a baby, a young child, a young adult, and a full adult (although this could also fall under suicide, since they were his own clones). In the episode The Wedding Squanchers, he killed a few more members of the Galactic Federation. In Look Who's Purging Now, Rick and Morty partake in the Purge, and Rick kills a large number of government officials, although this was in a successful effort to remove the Purge. He also beat Rick Prime to death in "Unmortricken," and Evil Morty describing it as "not exactly an alive amount of blood" confirms this. Public Intoxication: Rick is consistently drunk throughout the series which results in multiple disasters. Prison Escape - In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", Rick broke out of the Galactic Federation Prison, killed many of the guards, and finally, blew the entire place up, which in turn, must have freed any other prisoners, assuming any survived the explosion. Rape: Rick, drunk and high, sleeps with Princess Poñeta before the events of "Rickdependence Spray", as demonstrated in the episode. In the third act, the Chud King says, in an off–hand comment, "This love is forbidden. My daughter, you are a Chud. Rick is a human… and age inappropriate." This implies that Poñeta is a minor, and this was statutory rape. It is worth nothing that this action resulted in the birth of a Chud–human baby. Slavery: In the episode The Ricks Must Be Crazy, it was revealed that Rick's spaceship battery was powered through a microverse, containing a whole planet of people forced to generate his power (originally through deception, later through fear of destruction). Smuggling: In the Pilot episode, Rick attempted to smuggle Mega Seeds past Intergalactic Customs security, by having Morty shove them up his butt to avoid the scanner detecting them. However, when the security guard told them they have a new machine that would detect things up there, Rick grabbed Morty and took off running from them. Terrorism: At the end of the episode The Ricks Must Be Crazy, the inhabitants of the microverse are forced to step on gooble-boxes to power Rick's spaceship for fear of their planet being destroyed (see above: Slavery). However it was only the scientist alien who knew of the perilous position of their universe, the majority of the microverse inhabitants simply believe themselves to be producing power for themselves, i.e. Ricks original lie to them. A better example of acts of terrorism would be in his prison escape and the prison's subsequent explosion, or when he and Morty "did a pearl harbor". Time Manipulation: In the episode A Rickle in Time, Rick froze time for the equivalent of six months which caused time to start splitting and dividing multiple times, to the point where a Fourth Dimensional Being from the Galactic Federation came and tried to arrest him and his grandkids, also revealing that Rick may have done this before. Torture/Cruelty to Animals: In the episode Pickle Rick, he killed rats inhumanely. Treason/Rebellion: Prior to the start of the series, Rick was part of an organization that attempted to overthrow and destroy the Galactic Federation, along with his old comrades Squanchy and Birdperson. Vandalism/Arson: Rick destroyed multiple things in Intergalactic Customs in the Pilot episode. In the episode Something Ricked This Way Comes, Rick had a store and soon got bored of it, so he doused it with gasoline and lit it on fire while people were still in it. Relationships Though exploitative and demanding, Rick genuinely cares about his grandson and values their adventures together, making him one of the few Ricks to do so. He hesitates to outwardly show any love or appreciation however, making sure Morty doesn't get cocky. In "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!", Rick seems genuinely surprised to find that the Morty he traveled with turned out to be a simulation, calling the Zigerions "diabolical sons of bitches", angry that they simulated his genitalia. He later becomes very drunk and threatens the real Morty with a knife, demanding to know whether or not he is another simulation before passing out. Morty is possibly the stabilizing influence in Ricks life that keep Rick from doing things that could end up doing a lot of harm though this does not work on many occasions. When Rick messes up, Morty is the one who convinces him to fix things. Though Morty often frustrates him, Rick seems to get very upset at the idea of not being able to have adventures with Morty. He repeatedly attempts to help Morty escape from his other obligations to free up more time, in order to have him continue to be his assistant, such as pulling him out of school, manipulating Mr. Goldenfold's dreams to give Morty A-grades in math, allowing Morty to lead an adventure of his own and creating a serum of vole oxytocin to force Jessica into loving Morty. Rick even goes through an elaborate heist setup that causes an unknowing Morty, who expressed interested in pitching a series idea for Netflix, to lose interest in the endeavor and continue agreeing to go on adventures with him. Rick's (and all Ricks in other realities) reason for bringing Morty along with him is that all Ricks give off a very distinct brainwave pattern due to their genius, making them easy to track by their various enemies. The only way to camouflage the brainwave is to stand near someone with "complementary" brainwaves, which Rick calls "Morty Waves". Despite this, Rick seems to do things with Morty for reasons beyond needing camouflage, such as watching TV with him in "Rixty Minutes", taking him to an alien pawn shop in "Raising Gazorpazorp", and infiltrating Mr. Goldenfold's dreams in "Lawnmower Dog". It can also be pointed out that Rick can be spiteful to those that have genuinely upset Morty, such as in "Meeseeks and Destroy" when King Jellybean assaulted Morty, which not only caused Rick to attempt to cheer Morty up but also murder King Jellybean once he figured out what happened. Another minor example occurred in "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" when Rick gave Vance Maximus an angry glare after Vance insulted Morty. Rick believes that Morty is "as dumb as he (Rick) is smart", but still insists that Morty focus on science in "Rick Potion No. 9". He claims that Morty will "be like [Rick] someday", and that he has a "special mind". He also takes offense when Jerry insinuates that Morty has some kind of disability. In spite of all the physical and mental trauma that Rick has put him through in their adventures, Morty still considers Rick his grandfather and his friend. In "Forgetting Sarick Mortshall", Morty was heartbroken when Rick decided to leave Morty, claiming he would be better off without him. This lead him to two different attempts to get Rick back in "Rickmurai Jack" and he later proves his loyalty to his grandfather when he refuses to join with Evil Morty in favor of Rick. Later in "Solaricks", with Rick tempted to continue his quest for revenge against Rick Prime, Morty gets Rick to stop by telling him that he considers Rick his actual Grandfather, not Rick Prime. This ultimately convinces Rick to abandon his vengeance, at least for the time being. In "Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation", Rick replaces himself with Rickbot in order to continue his search for Rick Prime. When Morty continually expresses his anger at his Grandfather for tricking him, Rick shoots back that Morty called him boring, and clearly stopped respecting him and walks away. However Rick still returns to save Morty (and inadvertently The President's) from succumbing to the vacuum of space. While Rickbot dies, he reveals that Rick built him to be around the Morty and to make him happy and show that Rick truly cares for his grandson's happiness. Rick also admits he should have included Morty, and promises to work together to hunt down Rick Prime as their arc for season 7. As revealed in "Fear No Mort", Rick keeps a photograph of Morty in his wallet. The same episode also has Rick listen to and respect Morty's warnings, choosing not to jump into the fear hole. Rick cared very little for and paid scarce attention to Summer Smith Prime, saying her opinion meant "very little" to him in their last interaction, before unhesitatingly abandoning her to the apocalypse he created. Despite this, he was disgusted by the sight of a dream version of Summer dressed in sexual clothing in "Lawnmower Dog", and having her ask Rick and Morty to "make an inter-generational sandwich". Following his move to Dimension C-131, Rick began to bond with the Summer of that dimension, even going on their own adventures, making her - in a sense - Rick's second sidekick. In "Something Ricked This Way Comes", Rick and Summer train themselves together to buff up and assault Mr. Needful for revenge. He has abandoned at least one Summer to die after he was forced to switch dimensions. However, he seems to care for his current version. He tends to acknowledge her input, stating he was almost proud her suggestion to destroy the Federation. In "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer", Rick admits he greatly respects Summer as an equal, even admitting she greatly reminds him of her grandmother. Rick deeply loved his original daughter, to the point of being ready to give his science forever to be a family man. Her death deeply affected Rick who dedicated his life to hunting down her killer. When in, in "Solaricks", Rick thought he could avenge his original daughter, he was ready to abandon Beth C-131 and Space Beth, showing how much her death affected him. By contrast, Rick did not appear to have much affection for Beth Smith Prime, frequently manipulating her feelings so he could stay at her house - in the hopes that Rick Prime would day return - and later abandoning her to the apocalypse he created. Following his move to Dimension C-131, Rick began to build a much healthier relationship with the native Beth, being much kinder to her and treating her with more respect than he does the rest of the family. He frequently calls her "sweetie" to a far greater extent than he addresses Summer with the term. During the events of "Total Rickall," Rick comforts Beth when she shoots Mr. Poopybutthole after thinking he was a parasite. In "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy", Morty lashes out on Beth for her distance towards him and Summer. He blames this on her relationship with Rick, telling her that she doesn't need to prove herself to be worthy of Rick's love by acting essentially just like him, as it is making her appear just as narcissistic and irresponsible. And that while she's trying to gain Rick's approval, she's hurting him and Summer. Beth believed she needed to prove herself to Rick because of how rarely he ever tells her he loves her. He admits this to Jaguar in, "Pickle Rick." Rick also admitted in the same episode to Jerry that he believes Jerry impregnating Beth ruined her chances of being successful, and detests him for his detachment to his daughter. Beth's awareness of her mistreatment of her children may drive her farther away from Rick, as she may stop trying to get him to love her, and instead find solace in her relationship with her kids. In "The ABC's of Beth", Rick behaves with Beth similarly to how he behaves with Morty and Summer, deriding her and her actions. However, he sympathized with her when she admitted she was similar to him and suggested she go off into the universe to explore it just as he did. In "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri", it's also revealed that Beth gave Rick the responsibility of choosing for her, something that caused Rick visible stress for having to make such a large decision. Unsure of what the right decision is, Rick decides to forgo responsibility and switch the two Beths around so he doesn't know which Beth is the clone because he erased his memory. Rick later goes out of way to save his daughter, successfully freeing both. At the end, neither Beth want to know who is the original and both share a dislike of Rick. Also, Rick finally acknowledges his terrible parenting after seeing his own actions in a recording. The realization of how utterly pathetic and selfish his treatment of his daughter (though not original) is, Rick understands that he just lost possibly the last family member that cares for him. In "Rickmurai Jack", it's shown that Rick actually cares for Beth much more than he let on. As it happens, Rick's original Beth and Diane were both killed by a bomb sent by an alternate Rick. The deaths of her and Diane have deeply haunted Rick and caused him to search the multiverse to find and kill the Rick responsible for their deaths. This cements how much Rick cares for his daughter and how driven he was to avenge their deaths. Rick has little to no respect for Jerry and uses any chance he gets to demean or humiliate him, whether it's constantly reminding him of his failing marriage to Beth or mocking his low intelligence. Rick seems to somewhat resent the fact that Jerry had sex with Beth, and got her pregnant (with Summer) at seventeen.  Despite the fact that Rick sees Jerry as an idiot, he still helps him with his requests (providing him with an intelligence enhancer for Snuffles, the Meeseeks Box, and the parallel timeline goggles), and asks that the Rick Officers from the Council of Ricks "unfreeze his daughter's idiot" in "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind". However, it may simply be a way of him getting Jerry to stop bothering him or not bother him in the first place.  In "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" while the alternate Ricks are waiting at Rick C-137's house, Rick accurately predicts that the others Ricks "won't be able to resist" messing with Jerry, meaning that Rick hating Jerry is evident for almost all Ricks in every reality.  Also, in "Mortynight Run", a daycare was set up by a Rick to allow other Ricks to deposit their respective Jerrys. At first glance, it would seem the Jerrys enjoyed their time there but the more grim reality is revealed when a couple of Jerrys claimed they are abandoned as "their Ricks never returned". It's also revealed though that they are free to leave whenever they want as holding them against their will would be illegal. They just choose not to because they can't handle it out there because they're Jerrys and they don't know how to survive space. This can be seen as Rick at least not wanting Jerry to be killed since a version of him set up a daycare filled with stuff Jerry enjoys. Despite his apparent hatred of Jerry, in "Interdimensional Cable 2: Tempting Fate," he was just as horrified as the rest of the family at seeing him shot dead by the guards, though was right back to his usual demeanor towards his son-in-law when he was revived by advanced alien technology. In the episode "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!" he actually comforts Jerry after Jerry finds out the best day of his life was a simulation. In "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy", Morty convinces Rick to take Jerry on a "pity adventure" to keep him from committing suicide. Rick later admits to Jerry that he believes when he impregnated Beth, it ruined her chances of being successful, and he detests him for his detachment to his daughter. Dan Harmon has stated that Rick only hates Jerry by circumstance, and throughout the episode, they seemed to have been spending a good time together. Towards the end of the episode, Rick and Jerry's souls spend what feels like decades together when they are detached from reality, flying into a wormhole. At the end of the episode, they both learn to respect each other more. In the post credits scene of "The ABC's of Beth," Rick gives Jerry a message on his answering machine, telling him he took care of Jerry's problem (his ex-girlfriends Kiara's ex-boyfriend Trandor, who also messaged him threatening his life), and telling Jerry he's looking out for him. This implies that Rick did this of his own accord, or was simply asked by Morty or Summer to look out for him. In "Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty", Rick picked up Jerry from Florida as an excuse to get away from Balthromaw. Although Rick warned Jerry he didn't want to see why the Talking Cat could talk, Jerry peaked at its memories anyway. Rick then erased Jerry's memory so he wouldn't have to remember the horrors. In "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri," Rick saves Jerry and Beth from Tammy Guetermann. He forbade Dr. Wong from entering the ship, since she wasn't in his family, meaning he sees Jerry as such.  In "Final DeSmithation," Jerry gets a fortune cookie saying he will have sex with his mom, which made him a laughing stock to his kids. However, Rick decides that, as much of an idiot as he is, he has the right to take this seriously, and even helps him when he discovers the probability of it happening is high. In "The Jerrick Trap," the two engage in a petty argument after Jerry asks Rick for help in finding out if his rake is in their neighbor Gene's house. He gets told off by Jerry in the process, stating that his brain wouldn't have been wasted if only he had it. Insulted, Rick initiates a brain swap just to prove that people aren't "born smart." However, this ends up on a brutal route with their blood and brain parts scattered all over the place, as their own brains were not able to handle each other's minds. The Garage AI fixes the situation; however, it ends up in their personalities getting blended together. Surprisingly, the two bond really well. Even the one with Rick's body admits that, while Rick himself may constantly demean and insult Jerry, he doesn't always mean anything by it. When the two are restored to their normal selves, Morty opines that the two care for each other far more than either are willing to admit. Initially, there was very little known about the relationship between Rick and his former wife, Diane Sanchez, though comments made by Rick in "Rick Potion No. 9" and "The Wedding Squanchers" implied that they had a unhealthy relationship. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption," Rick shows a memory of his past to Cornvelious Daniel, where he is shown to be happy with both Diane and Beth before they are killed by Rick Prime. At first, Rick states that this was a completely fabricated origin story only to be shown as true in "Rickmurai Jack". From this, it is shown that Rick did love Diane dearly and contrary to his statements actually appeared to have a healthy marriage. Her death left a lasting impact on Rick, leading him to go on a quest to find the Rick who killed her and Beth. His failure at finding the Rick who killed them has further traumatized him and is what led him to become the alcoholic nihilist he is now. Even though he knows he can never Diane back thanks to the Omega Device, Diane's death still haunts Rick and, while he's had hookups, he never remarried. This demonstrates how much Diane meant to Rick and how in his eyes, Diane is irreplaceable. Like the rest of his family, Rick has a good relationship with Mr. Poopybutthole; during the events of Total Rickall, their relationship takes a blow when Beth shoots Mr. Poopybutthole after thinking he was a parasite. Rick tended to him after he was shot, telling him to hang on. Although Mr. Poopybutthole survived, he didn't want to speak with Rick or the family. By the time of "One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty", they are at least back on speaking terms as seen when they agree to a heist together. Rick considers Birdperson to be his best friend, having done lots of things together - like being a part of the same band, committing terrorism against the Galactic Federation together. Birdperson attended Rick's party in the episode Ricksy Business. He showed concern for Rick's well being, telling Morty that "Wubba Lubba Dub Dub" means "I am in great pain, please help me". He invited Rick to his wedding in the episode The Wedding Squanchers. In the same episode, Rick was shown to be very torn apart when he saw Birdperson die. Birdperson also has a picture of Rick holding a baby Morty, though as this was Birdperson of Dimension C-131, it is possible that the Rick and Morty were those of that reality. In "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri", he kills Tammy for killing his best friend. When Rick learned of Birdperson's fate as a cyborg, Rick was upset and tried to cheer him up by revealing his killing of Tammy but this caused him to be attacked. Prior to this, Rick called Birdperson his best friend but did mention he wondered who would win in a fight between them, as Birdperson called him a terrible friend. Birdperson would have killed Rick if he hadn't been saved by his family and Birdperson was shut off. In the end, Rick salvaged his incapacitated friend and keeps him in the garage lab, presumably to help him but he is wise to keep the latter shut off until he is calmed. In "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort", Rick is left home alone and finally finishes repairing Birdperson, fully removing his cybernetic enhancements. Whilst his body is repaired, Birdperson's mind is damaged, causing Rick to enter it. During this time, we see several memories revealing how Rick and Birdperson met and how their friendship developed. The two first met at some sort of alien music festival, where they also met Squanchy after getting high. The three became friends after this and went on to fight the Galactic Federation, eventually going on to participate in The Battle of Blood Ridge. Rick and Birdperson fought together and won the battle with ease. After the fighting was done, Rick offered to take Birdperson away from the fighting to an alternate universe, an offer he apparently shared with almost nobody; Birdperson was the exception because he mattered to Rick. Birdperson turned it down, stating their relationship was not worth his integrity. This clearly hurt Rick, who left whilst insulting Birdperson.  Memory Rick, who was observing this interaction alongside our Rick, questioned why the latter would bother risking his life for Birdperson after what he did. Rick tells Memory Rick "because you love him" which, of course, means Rick himself loves Birdperson. This is a rare instance of Rick expressing his affection for someone. Notably, it was done without the assistance of intoxication.  Once Rick escaped a now healed Birdperson's mind, the two had a brief conversation. Earlier in the episode, Rick had discovered Birdperson and Tammy had a child who was now locked up by the Galactic Federation; the memory had been removed from his mind by them during his time as Phoenixperson. However, it appears Rick wasn't planning on telling Birdperson, as having a child would prevent him from spending time with Rick. Whilst this shows the lengths Rick will go to just to hang out with Birdperson, it causes the latter to leave disappointed, telling Rick he'll see him when he sees him. In "How Poopy Got His Poop Back" Rick and Birdperson's friendship appears to have been fully restored as the two along with their other friends go on bar crawls and have fun with each other in order to help with a coping Mr. Poopybutthole, with Birdperson admitting it was "canonical" to see  Rick. At some point in the past Rick encountered Unity when the latter only had the collective consciousness of a small town, and the had a relationship that apparently ended on bad terms. In "Auto Erotic Assimilation"  the two meet after a very long time and waste no time rekindling their romance. Unfortunately as time goes on it's become increasingly clear that the two bring out the worst in each other when they are together. Afterward Unity breaks up with Rick, who is so hurt by this that he returns to Earth and nearly commits suicide, before passing out drunk. As shown from “Air Force Wong”, Unity still cares a great deal for Rick despite how they ended their relationship and tried to check up on him multiple times and later went to Earth when they heard that he had begun to hunt for “Rick Prime once again. When Rick continually ignores them, they resort to the extreme by taking over the entire state of Virginia. Rick is less than happy to see Unity due to how she ghosted him after the last time they met and constantly brushes off any concerns she had for him. Although, Rick still clearly cares for Unity as he immediately tells the President to back off when he insults Unity. Later he apologizes to Unity for ignoring her concern, however it was too little too late as Unity says they can't trust Rick anymore after all he did, as he once again goes back to Earth to wallow in his sadness and self-inflicted misery. Episode appearances Trivia Rick's appearance is meant to parody Doc Brown from Back to the Future. Rick has digestive problems, as revealed in ELDERS REACT TO RICK AND MORTY. Rick and Morty were originally from The Real Animated Adventures of Doc and Mharti, Justin Roiland's original Back to the Future parody. Also the names of the characters sound similar to the names "Doc and Marty," the main characters of the trilogy. Rick has a fear of pirates. His last name, "Sanchez" is Hispanic in origin. In the audio commentary for the episode "Auto Erotic Assimilation", Rick was confirmed to be of Hispanic descent. Exactly where is unknown.Justin Roiland claims that he considers Rick's cultural background "irrelevant".  Justin Roiland claims that he considers Rick's cultural background "irrelevant".  According to himself, he has the hardest working liver in the galaxy. Rick (C-137) is one of the only Ricks in existence shown to care about his Morty, as he starts crying when he is shown various memories of Morty, though he outwardly dismisses it as "being allergic to dipshits." This is further proven when he was ready to sacrifice himself for his Morty's sake during Season 2 Episode 1 when they were in the Schrödinger's cat field.Wasp Rick also cares about his Morty and family. Wasp Rick also cares about his Morty and family. In "Auto Erotic Assimilation," Rick is revealed to be an open pansexual. It's possible that Rick had a complicated relationship with his father because he wanted a stand of men who remotely resembled his father to cheer him on while he had sex with Unity. In Pocket Mortys, the scientist known as Rick talks about how he heard that Rick's mother was never satisfied by any actions of him or those of his siblings. It's possible they were not very supportive of Rick and weren't satisfied with his achievements. None of Rick's siblings, nieces, or nephews have ever been mentioned or seen on the show. In "A Rickle in Time," he briefly mentions that if he dies in a cage, he loses a bet. What this bet is wagering or who it's with is never stated. A flashback gag in "Total Rickall" shows Rick as being interested in getting a special edition Link Between Worlds 3DS XL and asking Nintendo for sponsorship. However, Rick actually owns a black 3DS that he is seen playing in "Look Who's Purging Now". Rick's Global Bank Card number is [1234 1234 1234|1234 1234 1234 1234] Rick can write with his right hand, shoot with his right hand, and sometimes holds objects with his right, but seems to favor using his left. He is often seen holding drinks with his left, shooting with his left, and even plays guitar with his left in a framed photo in Bird Person's house, with the exclusion of "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez", where he plays guitar right-handed. With this evidence, it can be concluded that Rick is fully ambidextrous, whether it be by natural or cybernetic means. Rick breaks the fourth-wall more than any other character in the series. In fact, he seems to be the only character fully aware of the fact that he's in a TV show, sometimes directly addressing the audience. Politically, Rick’s social values seem to be completely anti-authoritarian (Anarchist), as he opposes bureaucracy and the Galactic Federation as a total. When it comes to his economic values, he seems to not have a preference for left-wing or right-wing economics, even though, at many instances, he has been critical of capitalism with the episode “Never Ricking Morty“ being a major example. Because of Rick's hyper anti-authoritarianism and seemingly criticalness of capitalism, some speculate he's an Egoist. Rick's prisoner ID code while incarcerated is AE-3852-I. In the episode, "Get Schwifty", Rick is shown to be the bass guitarist in a band called "The Flesh Curtains" performed by Rick, Squanchy, and Birdperson. Although the band is never mentioned in the show, Birdperson keeps a photograph of the band on his wall. Rick's guitar playing skill is also evidenced in the episode, "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez", as Tiny Rick plays his own Tiny Rick Song on the guitar. Rick is currently the only character to have his consciousness transferred into a series of different bodies (including different versions of himself in the multiverse, clones of himself, and Cornvelious Daniel)Rick's current body is not even his own. His original body was killed during the events of "The Rickshank Rickdemption". Rick's current body is not even his own. His original body was killed during the events of "The Rickshank Rickdemption". Rick has a planet fetish. Rick has a B-Negative blood group. Rick's true age has yet to be confirmed. In "Rest and Ricklaxation," Toxic Rick mentions that he's been bottled for 70 years inside Rick's mind, implying that he is in his 70s. However, this is contradicted later on by an Instagram reel, posted by the official Rick and Morty account, of a clip from "JuRicksic Mort" where Rick fell down a cliff after attempting to skateboard down it. The reel is captioned with "Same age as Tony Hawk but not the same skillset." Around the time it was posted, Tony Hawk was 54, indicating that Rick may actually be in his mid-50s. This would make more sense as, at the time he lost his Diane and Beth (C-137), he was only 27, and current Beth is only 35. Jerry speculates that Rick may have more children besides Beth, due to his promiscuous lifestyle. This is later proven when Rick has a CHUD-human hybrid child with Poñeta named Foal. Rick has hinted that he is autistic. Rick and Morty co-creator Dan Harmon is also on the autism spectrum. In the third season's premiere, Rick is referred to as the smartest being in the universe by the Gromflomite guards. This marks the first case of his title of The Smartest Man in the Universe being used. Rick was never called this in previous seasons. After this episode, however, several characters and even Rick himself refer to him as such. During the episode "Mort Dinner Rick Andre," many things about Rick are revealed.Rick has a nemesis called Mr. Nimbus. Mr. Nimbus seems to have vague connections to Rick's past.Apparently, Rick originally had an assistant named Kyle. Nothing is known regarding Kyle, except that Mr. Nimbus prefers him over Morty.Mr. Nimbus refers to Rick as Richard, possibly revealing this as his first name, with Rick merely being a nickname. However, Rick himself never confirms this. Rick has a nemesis called Mr. Nimbus. Mr. Nimbus seems to have vague connections to Rick's past. Apparently, Rick originally had an assistant named Kyle. Nothing is known regarding Kyle, except that Mr. Nimbus prefers him over Morty. Mr. Nimbus refers to Rick as Richard, possibly revealing this as his first name, with Rick merely being a nickname. However, Rick himself never confirms this. Rick C-137 is atypical and unique from other Ricks in the show.He did not have his own Smith family, as Beth C-137 was murdered as a child by Rick Prime. He initially moved in with the Smith family that were abandoned by Rick Prime, his family's killer, posing as his nemesis and pretending he had returned.Rick C-137 does not have a 'Morty C-137' as the Morty we follow through the show is from the Prime Dimension. The only other Rick confirmed to not have his own biological Morty is Doofus Rick.The majority of the other Ricks we see live amongst each other on the Citadel of Ricks, as a capitalist-like civilization, with varying professions, social classes, and a governing democracy. However, not only is C-137 hostile to other Ricks (having murdered hundreds of thousands of versions of himself) he regularly expresses hatred and apathy for such governments and societies. He previously refused to join the Council of Ricks multiple times, instead opting on becoming an intergalactic fugitive terrorist ("terror-rick"). All of which were shown in "Rickmurai Jack" and in "The Rickshank Rickdemption."Despite the reoccurring gag that Morty questions whether Rick C-137 simply utilizes him selfishly, like all other Ricks, no other version of Rick has been shown to care about Morty and Summer as much as C-137. This could be due to the fact that his grandchildren of his dimension were never born, and thus he cherishes them more than other Ricks who naturally had grandkids.As stated by Rick Prime, Rick C-137 is the only other Rick, besides the former, who actually invented portal travel independently. The rest of the Rick's throughout the multiverse were introduced to it by other Ricks, who in turn learned it from Rick Prime. He did not have his own Smith family, as Beth C-137 was murdered as a child by Rick Prime. He initially moved in with the Smith family that were abandoned by Rick Prime, his family's killer, posing as his nemesis and pretending he had returned. Rick C-137 does not have a 'Morty C-137' as the Morty we follow through the show is from the Prime Dimension. The only other Rick confirmed to not have his own biological Morty is Doofus Rick. The majority of the other Ricks we see live amongst each other on the Citadel of Ricks, as a capitalist-like civilization, with varying professions, social classes, and a governing democracy. However, not only is C-137 hostile to other Ricks (having murdered hundreds of thousands of versions of himself) he regularly expresses hatred and apathy for such governments and societies. He previously refused to join the Council of Ricks multiple times, instead opting on becoming an intergalactic fugitive terrorist ("terror-rick"). All of which were shown in "Rickmurai Jack" and in "The Rickshank Rickdemption." Despite the reoccurring gag that Morty questions whether Rick C-137 simply utilizes him selfishly, like all other Ricks, no other version of Rick has been shown to care about Morty and Summer as much as C-137. This could be due to the fact that his grandchildren of his dimension were never born, and thus he cherishes them more than other Ricks who naturally had grandkids. As stated by Rick Prime, Rick C-137 is the only other Rick, besides the former, who actually invented portal travel independently. The rest of the Rick's throughout the multiverse were introduced to it by other Ricks, who in turn learned it from Rick Prime. It has been confirmed in "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort" that Rick was born naturally with light blue hair. Rick has appeared in every episode except for "Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie." In "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind", Rick, despite first meeting Morty Prime as a teenager and not having a grandson in his reality, has a memory of holding a Morty as a baby. 