Rick Sanchez of Dimension 5126 is an alternate version of the original Rick, he is the ex-husband of Mrs. Sanchez, the father of Beth Smith, the father-in-law of Jerry Smith, and the maternal grandfather of Summer Smith and Morty Smith, he was also the son of Rick's Father and a unnamed woman. Biography:: Unlike the other members of the family he has a different history than the main Rick, since from what is shown he doesn't come from a different universe, however it is very likely the events between "Pilot" and "The Rickshank Rickdemption" occurred in a pretty similar way with minor exceptions. Appearance: Rick is a tall, lanky old man. He has long legs and arms and is very skinny. He has a dimly tanned ashy complexion and light blue hair with a bald spot on the back of his head. He has spiky hair on his head and a unibrow. His face is wrinkly as he had bags under his eyelids and a pressure fold above his unibrow that follows its position and laugh lines on both sides of his mouth. He wears a white lab coat with a light blue green shirt underneath. He also wears brown pants, a dark brown belt with a yellow buckle, and black shoes. Rick speaks in a rambling manner that is often interrupted by belching and gagging, again this is due to his drug and alcohol addiction. Personality: Despite the lack of a divorce between Jerry and Beth there doesn't seem to be a major difference with the personality of Rick during the first 2 seasons, although unlike the main Rick he never got a major character development, if not directly being worsened by the time exposed to the matrimonial problems of his daughter. Episode appearances: He was in the Jerryboree to pick up Jerry, however he mistakenly thought they had the wrong Jerry and asked main Rick and Morty if they had 5126, when Morty Prime shows a Blips and Chitz ticket instead of a Jerryboree one both Ricks decide to exchange Jerrys, leaving them with Jerry (C-131) instead of their own. He was very possibly accompanied by Morty, although the latter wasn't shown directly in the episode. He is shown indifferent to the discussion occurring in the table, in which he says he knows an alligator park if Jerry wants to kill himself, and when Morty comments he was expelled from school he starts "complaining" about it in a sarcastic manner.