 Richard "Rick" Sanchez (C-132), most commonly known as Rick Sanchez (C-132), is one of the two main protagonists (alongside Morty) of the first two volumes of the Rick and Morty comic series. He is the ex-husband of Mrs. Sanchez, the father of Beth Smith, the father-in-law of Jerry Smith, and the maternal grandfather of Summer Smith and Morty Smith, he is also the son of Rick's father and a unnamed woman. He is a genius scientist whose alcoholism and reckless, sociopathic behaviour is a source of concern for his daughter's family over the safety of their son. This Rick is somewhat similar to the mainstream Rick but does diverge on some personality and historical details. Biography:: Rick's jumping between dimensions is even more unclear and foggy in the comic series. But as it starts out, he seems to be living with his C-132 counterparts who appear to have had little to no interactions with other counterparts outside of their dimension. His wife though is never mentioned. Rick (C-132) is revealed as deceased in the third volume of Rick and Morty, which switched focus to portray the off-screen adventures of the Rick Sanchez and Morty Smith of Dimension C-137. Personality: His personality is essentially the same as his C-137 counterpart but he is less wary of his grandson Morty becoming cocky. The Rick Sanchez who live in Dimension C-132 while similar to that of Rick (C137), does have minor differences in history and character. This Rick does not believe that Time Travel is a realistic possibility and that it is silly, as seen in Rick and Morty Issue 1. Rick (C-137), meanwhile, has experience with time travel; he does not show shock to the arrival of time-traveling beings in A Rickle in Time, and he utilizes time travel himself in Rattlestar Ricklactica. This Rick also is much less wary of his grandson Morty becoming cocky than that of his C-137 counterpart. When investing in the stock market, he caused his Morty to become extremely cocky to the point where Rick was fired by his grandson Morty. He also had no problem taking his grandson to a dimension where he was an idiot and Morty was a cocky genius, while his C-137 counterpart refuses to explain such a circumstance to his grandson Morty. Like his C-137 counterpart, this Rick is highly protective of his grandson Morty and sees him as more than just a shield. On one occasion, he saved his grandson's life before his own, throwing him into a portal that only had enough energy for one person. Though this did not stop C-137 from injecting Morty with several diseases. Site Navigation: