 Rick Sanchez of Dimension C-131 was a Rick who was killed alongside his dimension's Morty in an accidental lab explosion and was replaced by Rick C-137. He was the father of the current Beth Smith and Space Beth, the father-in-law of Jerry (C-131), and the maternal grandfather of the current Summer Smith and Morty Smith (C-131). Biography:: The history of this Rick was largely similar to most versions of Rick across the multiverse. In his youth, he created several inventions for his daughter Beth, and after being gifted the Portal Gun by Rick Prime, abandoned his family to travel the cosmos, making an enemy of the Galactic Federation and Mr. Nimbus during his adventures. Years later, Rick eventually returned to his family, moving in with his now adult daughter Beth when she had a family. Rick continued his adventures, taking his grandson Morty as a sidekick. During the events of Rick Potion #9, Rick accidentally transformed everyone on the planet into Cronenbergs, but managed to make an antidote and turn everyone back to normal again. He returned home the next day with his grandson Morty and they continued to work on his Ionic Defibrillator. However, this Defibrillator was programmed wrong and when he finished it, the entire thing exploded on him and killed them both. Just then, the Rick from Dimension C-137 and Morty Prime from the Prime dimension came in and they buried the bodies of their alternate dimension versions in the backyard and lived out the rest of their lives in their places. In the episode Rixty Minutes, Morty showed his adoptive sister Summer the graves where they buried their versions, explaining to her the events of the previous episode and their deaths. In the episode The Rickshank Rickdemption, Morty reminded Summer of her real grandfather Rick. Out of desperation to rescue Rick (C-137), she dug up his body to recover his portal gun, which hadn't been damaged in the explosion. In Solaricks, after Rick, Morty and Jerry were sent back to their original universes, Summer reveals to Beth that their versions of Rick and Morty are buried in the backyard. Appearance: Rick Sanchez from dimension C-131 was a tall, lanky old man. He had long legs and arms and is very skinny. He had a dimly tanned ashy complexion and light blue hair with a bald spot on the back of his head. He had spiky hair on his head and a unibrow. His face was wrinkly as he has bags under his eyelids and a pressure fold above his unibrow that follows its position and laugh lines on both sides of his mouth. He wears a white lab coat with a light blue green shirt underneath. He also wears brown pants, a dark brown belt with a yellow buckle, and black shoes. He is occasionally seen with some green spill from drinking or splattered vomit on his mouth which is the result of him ODing from the massive amounts of alcohol he consumes on a daily basis, although this isn't always on his face but shows up mainly when he is drunk or after he throws up. Rick speaks in a rambling manner that is often interrupted by belching and gagging, again this is due to his drug and alcohol addiction. Personality: Rick Sanchez from Dimension C-131 was a genius scientist, capable of creating complex scientific inventions, including brain-enhancing helmets, dream-invading devices, portals to several different dimensions, and the world's first amusement park inside the body of a living human. His brilliance can be muddled by his jaded personal views and his alcoholic tendencies. Rick (C-131) is easily bored and does not do well with routine. Unlike C-137, this Rick seems to be a tiny bit more caring and a little bit less lazy. Although he is more helpful by him just by a tiny extent, this still had a huge butterfly effect, causing him to heroically save the world from Cronenbergs with his antidote. After the events of this, Rick was a much happier and nicer guy who got along with Morty better and had a lot more fun with him and their presence together was a lot more nice and tolerable (up until their premature demise). Episode Appearances: "Rick Potion #9" "Rixty Minutes" (mentioned) "The Rickshank Rickdemption" (corpse only) "Solaricks" (mentioned)  Trivia: "The Rickshank Redemption" suggests that he, unlike C-137, was a member of The Citadel of Ricks given how their militia arrives after Rick's portal gun was destroyed by Jerry Prime. "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort" calls into question the veracity of this Rick's backstory. If Memory Rick is indeed based on this Rick, it would suggest that he is not in fact Rick C-131, merely another Rick who moved to Dimension C-131. Alternatively, Memory Rick could be based on adventures that Rick C-137 had in Dimension C-131 during his hunt for Rick Prime. Birdperson C-131 had a photo in his house of Rick holding a baby Morty. As Rick C-137 never had any biological grandchildren, this potentially indicates that Rick C-131 came back to his family when his grandchildren were born. Site Navigation: