Riq IV was the spokesperson for the now defunct Council of Ricks. He first appeared in the episode "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind". He also appears during the party in "Ricksy Business", though only in the background. He plays a primary role as the final boss in the Rick and Morty video game, Pocket Mortys. He was killed by Rick Sanchez in the Season 3 premiere episode, "The Rickshank Rickdemption", as a result of a standoff involving Summer and Morty. Biography:: In "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind", Riq IV appears alongside his fellow council-members, Rick Prime, Maximums Rickimus, Quantum Rick, Zeta Alpha Rick, and Ricktiminus Sancheziminius, accusing Rick C-137 for the murder of 27 alternate Ricks, including The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick. Riq IV sentenced Rick C-137 to the machine of unspeakable doom, to which he steals a portal gun and escapes from the Citadel. After the real perpetrator, Evil Rick, was beaten to death by the group of enslaved Mortys, the Council of Ricks shows up to escort the Rick-less Mortys back to their respective dimensions. The Council takes C-137 Rick and Morty back to the Citadel, and officially apologize to Rick for accusing him of the murders. They even offer him a coupon for a free Morty, should anything ever happen to his, which Rick accepts while Morty's back is turned. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", the Council of Ricks hold Morty and Summer captive after sending SEAL Team Ricks to assassinate Rick C-137. After Rick teleported the entire Citadel back into the middle of the Federation prison, a heated battle broke out between the two sides. Rick infiltrated the Council chamber and kills most of the Council of Ricks before ending up in a standoff with Riq IV, attempting to use Summer as a hostage. Rick tries to throw off Riq IV by stating that he didn't care about Summer's life. Morty intervened by threatening to shoot Rick who stated he wasn't let her die. Riq IV laughed and admitted he nearly fell for the deception and joined insulting Morty before laughing at the latter shooting Rick with a gun. Riq IV gloated, which gave Rick the opportunity to shoot Riq IV in the head, revealing the gun was fake. However, Morty had no idea rick had given him a fake gun so he ultimately tried to kill Rick C-137. Appearance: Riq IV shares the general appearance of Rick Sanchez, though with a much different hairstyle, consisting of 3 spikes, and a long soul patch. Appearances: "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" "Ricksy Business" (Cameo) "The Rickshank Rickdemption" Pocket Mortys Trivia: His name implied that he was from dimension Q-4. However, in Rick and Morty Presents: The Council of Ricks it was revealed that he actually was from Dimension C-7218 