He's killing every one... and every two and every three and every... Sinistar-7 is the Queen of Alphanumbericon. She is the daughter of the Emperor Dread Nought and the wife of Magma-T. Biography:: She first appears when she and the rest of the Numbericons  arrive on Earth to retrieve Water-T. Sinistar-7 appears later when she calls Water-T and begins to threaten him. But Water-T asks Sulfur-P to activate the "hyphen drive", after which they fly away from Sinistar-7. She flies to her father, the Emperor Dread Nought, and tells him that Water-T escaped from her with the "I" of Harmony. Emperor became angry and shocked her. He orders Sinistar-7 to kill Water-T.   When Water-T and his allies arrive on planet E-10, Sinistar-7 attacks them. But the spaceships of Sinistar-7 and Water-T were damaged and they both crashed on planet E-10. Water-T decides to save her, but Sinistar-7 does not accept help and they begin to fight. However, Mr. Goldenfold stops them and says: “On Earth, numbers get down. Sometimes even with letters.”. After some time, primitive googas find them all, begin to worship the "I" of Harmony and invite Water-T, Sulfur-P, Morty Smith, Mr. Goldenfold and Sinistar-7 to the "Ewok party". During the party, Water-T and Sinistar-7 argue again, but Morty stops them, annoying both Water-T and Sinistar-7.     At night, Sinistar 7 stole the "I" of Harmony and headed towards the temple. Water-T tries to stop her, but they start having sex instead. The "I" of Harmony activates and shows them the true history of the numbers and letters. But at this time a  spaceship with the Numbericons and the Emperor Dread Nought landing on planet E-10, Oxygen-S becomes 8. 8 takes the "I" of Harmony from the Emperor Dread Nought but Sinistar-7 is outraged that the Emperor Dread Nought simply gave the "I" of Harmony to 8. 8 tricks him and becomes Infinity. He destroys the Emperor Dread Nought and flies to kill the Alphabetrians. Sinistar-7 follows him along with the rest of the Numbericons.     On Alphabetrium Infinity destroys Sinistar-7's spaceship. Later, on Water-T's spaceship, Sinistar-7 informs Water-T that Oxygen-S killed the Emperor Dread Nought and Magma-Q. As they begin to sing, Magma-Q appears and transforms Water-T into Magma-T. Magma-T takes out the "I" of Harmony he begins to kiss Sinistar-7, thereby activating it. Magma-T turns the "I" of Harmony into a golden gun and kills Infinity. After this, Magma-T and Sinistar-7 begin to love each other and become the King and Queen of Alphanumbericon.    In the post-credits scene, Ice Cube arrives at Magma-T and Sinistar-7's palace to warn him about his planet's invasion by the formivores, which Magma-T and Sinistar-7 decide to help him with.     Appearance: In her natural form, Sinistar-7 is a large yellow number seven with a snake face, wearing black mechanical armor and a purple cape. When she appears as the Queen of Alphanumbericon, her mechanical armor and cape turn light gray. Relationships: Sinistar-7 has a rather bad relationship with his father. She constantly followed his orders to increase his power. When Infinity kills the Emperor Dread Nought, Sinistar-7 confirms that he was a "bad father". At first their relationship was terrible, but when they both landed on planet E-10, their relationship gradually began to improve. After defeating Infinity, they fully fell in love with each other and became King and Queen of Alphanumbericon.  Episode appearances: "Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie" Trivia: Sinistar-7 is a parody of the Marvel Comics character, Gamora. 