 Space Jam Morty is a version of Morty Smith that from the Space Jam universe. He originally appeared as a cameo in the movie Space Jam: A New Legacy, the same cameo was mentioned in Full Meta Jackrick and then he was confirmed to be canon in Rickfending Your Mort. Biography:: In one scene from the movie, the Tasmanian Devil unexpectedly slams into the enclosed glass sphere. As he's hungrily licking the glass, Rick and Morty appear in their Space Cruiser. After Rick says they are done running tests on him and that his condition is irreversible, Morty says that he'll never forget what he saw from his brain. They leave Taz, before blasting off in the Space Cruiser and leave. His cameo is mentioned in Full Meta Jackrick, where Rick says that Meta Reality's "meta-radiation" is destroying all of their credibility and every second they spend there is worth 10 cameos in Space Jam. He appears in one of the many flashbacks shown by the Observers in Rickfending Your Mort. As Morty in court says that they never intentionally killed anybody and Rick added that they aren't killing for fun, a flashback is played by their lawyer Observer, which shows Rick coming home from the Space Jam universe, with Space Jam Morty and Space Jam Rick in bodybags. Rick announces to Morty that he killed their variants from that universe much to their both excitement. After Morty asks how he did it, Rick explains that they just accepted it as they had enough of their life. After the clip, Rick tries to explain himself by saying that they begged for it and that it was a mercy kill. Their lawyer asked the offender if the clip helped, to which he responded that it helped their prosecution. This was enough for the judge to deliver his verdict, which was delayed by Rick showing him his own clip. Appearances: Rickfending Your Mort (flashback; corpse in a bodybag) Space Jam: A New Legacy Trivia: This Morty is traumatized from experiments done to Taz. The fact that he said he'll never be able to erase it from his brain, means that he either doesn't know about Morty's Mind Blowers, or they can't do that in their own universe.