 The Space Cruiser is an interdisciplinary vehicle designed and built by engineer-scientist Rick Sanchez with the aim of making space travel an easier and faster task for him. In the "Pilot", Rick said that he built it out of stuff he found in the garage, although in "Rickmurai Jack" it is shown that Rick created the spaceship in his youth. The cruiser overcomes the interstellar distances in such a short time, apparently due to the work of the warp engine, which is also used by other higher alien species in their space transport.  Engine and abilities: The Microverse-based powercell is the main powercell of the vehicle, whom in-habitants possess a culture based on the belief that the vehicle owner, Richard Sánchez, is an extraterrestrial lifeform with the sole purpose of spreading his knowledge in electricity. The powercell produces the energy required to power the vehicle's engine, while also distributing a minor part of it to its in-habitants.  The engine processors located on both sides of the ship are connected to a supply of concentrated dark-matter, a powerful fuel discovered by Richard Sánchez with the purpose of powering his engine. The engines are equipped to support the energy charge of the fuel while also distributing it to the rest of the systems.  Disintegrator gun Grow Ray Laser minigun Two built-in mops Control chip 2 frontal flamethrowers Underside Gunner Knockout gas Can jam radios Invisibility Stealth Auto Park Laser cutter Rockets A number of unidentified weapons Cloning pod Repair Bots Laser drill Robot arms Very durable Attached flamethrower Can whitelist certain species Railgun like weapon Real gun like weapon Planet net Can observe a planet surface Has an AI (voice modeled after Diane Sanchez) Can access information files Ejector Receive distress calls Loudspeakers A small screen which can receive messages Repulsor blast Built-in whiteboard Rapid fire energy gun Mega seed power cell Planet Tower Possible Portal Gun (as in the series "The Ricks Must Be Crazy" we were shown how Rick, Morty and Summer were in the Ice Cream Universe, while they got into this universe using a space cruiser, although we were not shown it) Two windshield wipers Episode Appearances: Pilot Lawnmower Dog Anatomy Park M. Night Shaym-Aliens! Rick Potion #9 Raising Gazorpazorp Something Ricked This Way Comes Mortynight Run Total Rickall (flashback) The Ricks Must Be Crazy (first speaking role) Big Trouble In Little Sanchez Look Who's Purging Now The Wedding Squanchers The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy Rest and Ricklaxation Morty's Mind Blowers The Rickchurian Mortydate Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat The Old Man and the Seat One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty Claw and Hoarder: Special Ricktim's Morty Rattlestar Ricklactica Promortyus Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri Mort Dinner Rick Andre Mortyplicity A Rickconvenient Mort Amortycan Grickfitti (second speaking role) Rick & Morty's Thanksploitation Spectacular Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort (blueprint in Rick's memories) Rickmurai Jack (flashback) Solaricks (new model) Night Family (new model is destroyed) Final DeSmithation Juricksic Mort Analyze Piss A Rick in King Mortur's Mort Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation How Poopy Got His Poop Back The Jerrick Trap (third speaking role) Air Force Wong That's Amorte Unmortricken (fourth speaking role) Rickfending Your Mort Wet Kuat Amortican Summer Fear No Mort In other media: The Space Cruiser appears in MultiVersus as Morty's up special, titled "Uh, Auto-Pilot?". Using the move has Morty call the Cruiser in, which flies upward towards the upper blast zone. As it rises, Morty and other fighters can stand on the Cruiser as if it were a platform. Cooldown applies to summoning the Cruiser. Trivia: In the Pilot episode, Rick asks Morty if he likes the Space Cruiser and remarks he made it out of stuff he found in the garage. This implies Rick only built the ship around the time of the series inception.The Space Cruiser is also shown to have a sail attached to the back of it in only this episode. It is never seen again after the Pilot.A flashback in "Rickmurai Jack" shows that Rick previously invented a space cruiser in his youth, but it was destroyed when he crashed into the house. Based on their very similar shapes, it is likely Rick used remnants of the destroyed cruiser to make the one seen in the series' present. The Space Cruiser is also shown to have a sail attached to the back of it in only this episode. It is never seen again after the Pilot. A flashback in "Rickmurai Jack" shows that Rick previously invented a space cruiser in his youth, but it was destroyed when he crashed into the house. Based on their very similar shapes, it is likely Rick used remnants of the destroyed cruiser to make the one seen in the series' present. The space cruiser was partially inspired by the spaceship that Calvin's imaginary character, Spaceman Spiff owned in the comic strip Calvin And Hobbes. The ship's AI is modeled after the voice of Rick's late wife Diane.