  Squanchy is a cat-like anthropomorphic creature, who is a very close friend of Rick and Birdperson. He appears to share Rick's love for alcohol and partying. Squanchy's first appearance was at Rick and Summer's party in "Ricksy Business", having been invited by the former. Morty and Jessica first meet Squanchy engaging in auto-erotic asphyxiation masturbation in Morty's garage. This marks the first among many things he refers to as "squanching." It has been shown Squanchy once fought alongside Rick and Birdperson in a rebellion against the Galactic Federation. This would later come back to hurt the trio, as they were ambushed at Birdperson's wedding several decades later. Squanchy transformed into his berserker form and fought off the Federation army whilst Rick escaped with his family. He ultimately survived the encounter and returned to living peacefully on his home planet.    Biography:: In "The Wedding Squanchers", after Tammy reveals herself as a deep cover agent for the Galactic Federation and the wedding reception is ambushed by Gromflomites, Squanchy tells Rick to save his family and get out of there before pulling out one of his teeth and breaking it in half to consume a green liquid substance, which subsequently turns him into a giant version of himself with superhuman strength and endurance. At the end of the episode it is hinted to that Squanchy may have died in the fight against the Gromflamites when Rick drops the photo of Birdperson, Squanchy and himself. This hint is reinforced in the post credits scene of "The Rickshank Rickdemption" when Tammy is revealed to be alive and unharmed as Squanchy was last seen fighting her. However, when Rick is mining Death Crystals in Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat, one of his possible deaths is being ripped in half by Squanchy in his berserker form. This future could have only been a possibility if Squanchy survived his fight with Tammy. This is later confirmed to be true, as Squanchy returns in "How Poopy Got His Poop Back" and Rick directly comments on him surviving the battle at the wedding. In the episode "Get Schwifty" it is revealed that he and Rick have a long history together, as he is shown playing drums in a band with Rick and Birdperson called "The Flesh Curtains". Appearance: Squanchy is a short orange cat-person with a tiny blue nose, a dark brown goatee, messy fur and whiskers. He has a naked tail with a brown tuft of hair on its tip. When he drinks the green liquid from his tooth, he becomes a big, muscular cat-person with green eyes, a larger beard, vast tufts of hair on his giant shoulders, black claws, and sharper teeth. Personality: He appears to a good friend of Rick's. Personality-wise, he is a party animal who behaves very wildly. Squanchy has a knack for masturbating - or "squanching" as he puts it - crashing parties as seen in "Ricksy Business" where he redirects Rick's party to his place after the party's over, and drinking alcohol (as he is seen carrying the beverage around). He is also a very loyal friend of Rick and Birdperson, as when the Galactic Federation crashes Birdperson's wedding and winds up mortally injuring Birdperson, Squanchy tells Rick to escape with his family whilst he would remain and fight off the Federation forces. Whilst Squanchy was eventually revealed to have survived this battle, this shows he was willing to die to protect his friends. Before the battle, despite his loyalty to Rick, he was shown to be disappointed by Rick calling Birdperson his best friend. Squanchy responded by removing a friendship bracelet inscribed with "Rick's BFF". Squanchy also has a habit to replace most of his verbs with the term "squanch" as it is native to his species' dialect, much like how the Smurfs say "smurf" instead of certain words. Beth draws this comparison upon meeting him for the first time at Birdperson's wedding. Appearances: "Ricksy Business" "Get Schwifty" (Pictured) "The Wedding Squanchers" "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" (Vision) "Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort" "Rickmurai Jack" (flashback cameo) "How Poopy Got His Poop Back" Trivia: Squanchy replaces most of his verbs with a variation of "squanch", which is similar to the way Smurfs replace various words with the "smurf" in the eponymous cartoon series. Squanchy played the drums in a band with Rick and Birdperson, called The Flesh Curtains. Squanchy makes a cameo in an issue of the Rick and Morty comics spying on a couple making out in the forest. Squanchy bears a striking resemblance to the character Smarf from another Adult Swim program Too Many Cooks, an 11-minute short that went viral during an Adult Swim "Infomercials" block in 2014. This character, in turn, seems to be a parody of Snarf, a character on the 1980s cartoon ThunderCats. Squanchy appears in Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat in a vision of one of Ricks possible deaths.This foreshadowed his eventual return to the show, as this vision would only be possible if Squanchy actually survived in his previous appearance. This foreshadowed his eventual return to the show, as this vision would only be possible if Squanchy actually survived in his previous appearance. "Squanchy" is also the name of the species he belongs to. The Season 7 premiere shows that if Squanchy vomits up some of the green liquid he takes to transform into his berserker form, he will not fully transform and end up deformed.This also marks the third time Squanchy has been shown transforming into his berserker form, yet it still hasn't been shown how he changes back. It can be assumed the effects are only temporary. This also marks the third time Squanchy has been shown transforming into his berserker form, yet it still hasn't been shown how he changes back. It can be assumed the effects are only temporary.  Merchandise: