Summer Smith of Dimension C-131 is the tritagonist of Rick and Morty. She is a member of the Smith Family and the daughter of Jerry Smith and Beth Smith/Space Beth, the older sister of Morty Smith, and the mother of Naruto Smith.   She currently acts as the older sister and the granddaughter of Morty and Rick, respectively, from the Prime Dimension and Dimension C-137. For a time, she was the only other known member of the the Smith Family to be aware of that fact. Although it is in "Solaricks" that the whole family finds out that the Rick and Morty (and even Jerry) they're with are from different universes.  As the series has progressed, Summer has become more frequently involved in Rick and Morty's adventures. She and Morty often squabble and compete for Rick's affection, but also maintain a unique bond stemming from the revelation that the Morty she's with is not her original brother. Appearance: Summer is a female teenager of average height, thin build, and wide hips. She has a fair complexion, shoulder-length ginger hair, an oblong-shaped face, and a pointed nose. Her most common outfit has been a bright pink tank-top, white capri-pants, and black slip-on shoes. She usually has her hair pulled back in a ponytail. Notably, she shares the exact same face as her father, Jerry.   Her pajamas consist of a white under and pink shorts more often than a pink tank top with red and white striped sweatpants.    Personality: Summer has some personality traits of a typical American teenager, as she wishes to be popular among her peers, and finds the antics of her family to be dysfunctional, though she still cares for them. She's very attached to her phone and social media, taking videos of her dog Snuffles when he became super-smart, and shuddering at the thought of her father Jerry joining Facebook. It is revealed that Summer can be jealous of the close relationship about her grandfather Rick and her brother Morty, and she can sometimes feel ignored by her grandfather. While Rick tries to keep her at a distance, the two of them have gone on their own adventures, including on the planet Gazorpazorp. Her complex of being ignored by Rick exhibits into a connection with the Devil in "Something Ricked This Way Comes". Although Summer is not as scientifically-minded as her grandfather Rick, she does possess intelligence. Summer is shown to be a very smart and nimble-witted teen, at least compared to rest of her family. Currently, she is not as violent as Beth was when Beth was young, but enjoys fighting alongside Rick and reacts quickly to life-or-death situations. She is also a sociopathic and narcissistic person, like her grandfather; similar to the way that Morty responds, but only when truly pushed to his limits. Summer, however, seems more readily able to access these elements of her deeper-rooted personality when subjected to her grandfather Rick's influence for a relatively short amount of time, as seen in "Rickmancing the Stone". She is also shown to possess a strong desire for family. Her stance towards them is best summarized in her quote from "The Wedding Squanchers", where she explains that she would rather live an isolated existence without a future if it means that the family won't have to abandon Rick, saying that she believes that, "you don't love someone in hopes of a reward". In "The Rickchurian Mortydate", she is shown to reiterate this sentiment when she freely runs away with the family to a cabin in the woods so that Beth will never have to experience her existential crisis alone. Relationships: Summer seems jealous of the fact that her grandfather Rick chooses to go on adventures with her brother Morty and not her. Rick claims that the opinions of his granddaughter Summer mean "very little" to him, but he still cares for her, as he admits that the top Summer wears in "Raising Gazorpazorp" is cute. Summer gets a part-time job at a cursed antique store run by the Devil, aka Mr. Needful, just to spite Rick, in "Something Ricked This Way Comes". Despite this, Rick helps his granddaughter Summer buff up and take revenge on Mr. Needful after they get fired by him. Afterwards, the two go around beating up other people doing bad things. In "Ricksy Business", Summer, along with her brother and grandfather, freezes time to stop her parents from finding their house in wretched shape. She proceeds to have fun together all around town, doing things like carving pumpkins, pulling peoples' pants down, and watching the movie Titanic together. It becomes apparent in "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez" that Summer understands Rick's suffering better than Morty does, possibly due to their respective ages. Summer is the first to recognize that Tiny Rick needs help, and figures out the true meaning behind his existential songs, while the rest of her class simply appreciates his music and dancing. During "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri", Rick gave Summer the invisible belt after she voices how she wants to irritate Morty by having it.  "A Rickconvenient Mort" sees Summer going on an adventure with Rick in Morty's stead, with Rick taking her on a planetary apocalypse crawl. At first, Summer is pleased, but she quickly grows annoyed with Rick breaking his own rule about making no connections after he brings Daphne from the planet Morglutz with him for the rest of the crawl. After Summer ruins the crawl by stopping the last apocalypse and revealing Daphne is not seriously interested in Rick, Rick reluctantly commends her for her actions, admitting he would have done the same in her position. He even admits that her stopping an apocalypse to prove a point is a very him thing to do.  In "Night Family," it is speculated that Summer holds a grudge against Rick due to the time she was told in "Raising Gazorpazorp" that her opinion means very little to him. This is because her unconscious persona, Night Summer, was leading the Night Family, was the most active in trying to put Rick in his place, and even told him that his opinion "means very little" to her — which parallels to what he has said to her in the past.  "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer" shows how Summer does Rick's chores to get what she wants. In the beginning of the episode, she receives an Attribute Slider as payment for cleaning up his mess. This upsets Morty, as he has been asking for the device for ages, while Summer gets to use it. Later on, Summer expresses her disappointment because "Morty gets everything for free." Rick then explains that Morty's a dog, and people have cats as "their affection is earned."  Rick's perception of Summer becomes clearer when it is revealed in "Solaricks" that she reminds Rick of her grandmother, Diane. The referenced scene regarding affection in "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer" affirms this, as it was the moment Rick finally professed this sentiment to her, also admitting that he respects her as an equal. However, Summer seemed not to hear any of what he's said.      At first, the Smith siblings barely interact with each other, as Morty would generally be with Rick on an adventure. However, after Summer finds out she was an unwanted pregnancy in "Rixty Minutes", she threatens to leave home. Morty convinces his sister not to leave by revealing the truth that he and Rick are not her real brother and real grandfather, that they replaced them when their reality was destroyed and the two in this one had died and were buried in the backyard. By doing this, he reveals that he is not exactly her brother but an alternate version of her brother that they can trust. The revelation convinces Summer to stay with her parents. Summer seems to be a little jealous of her brother, as he is always going on adventures with Rick, but she mostly expresses her jealousy to Morty, and not Rick. In "Total Rickall" it is shown that the two have a normal antagonistic brother-sister relationship where Morty refers to Summer as "Bitch of a sister". It has, however, been shown that she does care for her little brother as seen in "Lawnmower Dog", she hugged him after seeing him alive and well after she was freed, but Morty pushed her since her breasts were in his face (because he had terrible experience while in Mr. Goldenfold's dreams, which involved seeing her half naked). Morty also cares about Summer, in "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez" where Tiny Rick both insults and humiliates Summer, causing Morty to rise to her defense and scold Rick for it. Morty, meanwhile, has also been shown to care a great deal about his sister, as in "Rickmancing the Stone", he was unwilling to leave the Post-Apocalyptic Dimension without her, and in "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy", he disfigured Ethan with Rick's Morphizer-XE for "making his sister cry" and "messing with her body image". Summer seems to have a fairly good relationship with her mother Beth, the daughter and the woman are very similar as they are both very smart, humorous, and ambitious. However, Summer is much more selfless. Their relationship becomes strained in "Rixty Minutes", when Summer discovers that she was an unwanted pregnancy, and that her mother even considered getting an abortion. However, by the end of the episode, she appears to have made up, as Summer decides to stay at home instead of running away. However, their relationship isn't perfect and has always been rickety. In the episode "Total Rickall", Summer had a bad memory of her mother, Beth was shown with the woman blackout drunk holding on to a wine bottle while lying in bed. When Summer walked in, she was mad to find Beth like this since she needed Beth to drive her to school. Beth declared she was fine, but in doing so, she accidentally gave Summer a black-eye with the wine bottle. Summer started crying and was upset because it was picture day. Beth tried reassuring them it was fine, while putting make up on jet to hide the black-eye. Summer's reply to her wasted mother was "I want the Police to take me!" Their relationship clearly has its flaws. She also appears to be rather envious of Beth's boobs, as Morty discovered a bra way too big, which Summer defended herself, claiming to grow into as Beth had big breasts. In "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy", Morty lashes out at Beth for her distance towards him and Summer. He blames this on her relationship with Rick, telling her that she doesn't need to prove herself to be worthy of Rick's love by acting essentially just like him, as it is making her appear just as narcissistic and irresponsible. And that while she's trying to gain Rick's approval, she's hurting him and Summer. Later in the episode, Beth use the morphiser to grow into a giant, has her skin turned inside out, and comforts a crying Summer. In "Morty's Mind Blowers", it was revealed that Summer is the favorite of Beth, the woman was trapped in a situation, where an evil alien from another dimension was planning on killing one of her two children, and graced her with the choice of which one lives. Without any hesitation, Beth immediately demanded that her daughter Summer be the one who survives, Summer was shocked at her mother's choice, as was the alien, but luckily Rick rescued his daughter and grandchildren and erased her brother's memories though he recalled this but forgot again. Beth's awareness of her mistreatment of her children may drive her farther away from Rick, as she will likely stop trying to get him to love her, and instead find solace in her relationship with her children, including Summer. Summer seems to have a fairly good relationship with her father Jerry, their relationship becomes strained in "Rixty Minutes", when Summer discovers that she was an unwanted pregnancy, and that her parents even considered getting an abortion. However, by the end of the episode, she appears to have made up, as Summer decides to stay at home instead of running away. Another strain on their relationship occurs in the episode "Look Who's Purging Now", when Jerry makes feeble attempts to converse with his child Summer as they lounge around the house; the first instance, Summer denies her father's attempt with an argument that his attempt was not so much "making conversation", but that his questions were "holding her verbally hostage", the second attempt of offering them crackers was more strongly denied, followed with Summer telling Jerry to get a job because he was bored and starting drama, but fizzles quickly when Jerry not-so-subtly asks Summer for financial assistance while in between jobs, to which she responds with irritation, and again, denial.  Summer resents the fact that her father takes away their phone in "Anatomy Park" but prefers having no phone over having her father, Jerry, join Facebook. In the wake of her parent's divorce, Summer ultimately tries to maintain a relationship with her father. At the end of "Rickmancing the Stone", she visits her father Jerry in his new apartment, bringing him the skull of the first mutant she killed in the Post-Apocalyptic Dimension as a housewarming gift. In Childrick of Mort, Summer goes ballistic and shouts at Jerry, leaving him hurt. Later on, she and Morty realize Jerry was right about them not knowing everything. Jerry returned the sentiment by telling them they were right, something that left Summer shocked. Even though he's a "Giant Incest Baby" of her and Morty's biological son, it is shown that Summer still loves him by following her "mother's instinct". As shown in Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion episode, Summer felt horrible after seeing her own child being Weaponized by The President. Naruto also instinctively likes Summer as well as he obeys her command as they bonded with each other and escaped. As seen later in the episode, Naruto obediently follows Summer's orders as shown to destroy GoGoGoTron on her command. Tammy and Summer were both the best of friends for the first two seasons. The two of them were just casual friends who talked to each other and hung out a lot and there was nothing all that complicated to their relationship. However, in the episode "Ricksy Business", Tammy and Bird Person fell madly in love and they took off to live in Bird World together, which was kind of sad for Summer. In the episode "The Wedding Squanchers", Tammy invited Summer to her wedding with Bird Person because she was her friend and the whole family came with them. Summer was happy to see her again, and kind of jealous that they were the first of all her friends to get married. It was later revealed that Tammy was actually an undercover agent for Galactic Federation, who had busted the entire wedding because a lot of criminals were there, including Rick Sanchez. Everybody at the wedding was being attacked and destroyed, but The Smith Family escaped just in time, and from this point on, it's not likely that Tammy and Summer are still friends, given that their friendship was just a ploy to get closer to Rick in the first place. Nancy is one of Summer's friends. Summer tends not to treat her with the same respect they give to her other friends. It's likely Summer befriended her out of pity. Summer usually neglects and ignores Nancy, and never actually does the same things with her that she does with her other friends. Nancy still tries talking to her because she feels she needs to be friends with someone pretty and popular. This was all until the episode "Ricksy Business", where Nancy realized that Summer was completely disrespectful to her, and that she didn't need to be friends with her. It appears though that by "The Rickshank Rickdemption" the two reconciled and became friends again since Summer mentions that Nancy texted her that she and her other friends were drawing and quartering aliens in the school courtyard. In "Rattlestar Ricklactica", Nancy can also be shown crashing a slumber party with Summer, which might imply that they have reconciled their differences and got on better terms. Summer has mixed feelings about Tricia. At first, the two appear to have some sort of rivalry as Tricia is a big-breasted, generally good-looking girl who Summer envies. The rivalry starts when Ethan, Summer's boyfriend, cancels their camping trip together just to book the date with Tricia instead. Summer (alongside Morty) attributes this to Tricia's looks. This leads to Summer feeling insecure in comparison to Tricia, wishing her breasts were bigger so that she could gain the likes of her peers - most notably Ethan. To earn the likes of Ethan again, Summer tries to enlarge her breasts through one of Rick's morphiser machines, which backfires when her entire body turns into a gigantic muscle-bound wreck. During Tricia and Ethan's camping trip, they get interrupted by the Smiths (Morty, Summer and Beth). Beth is seen comforting Summer, attempting to make her feel better due to her inferiority complex and self-consciousness. Tricia seems to be moved by Summer and Beth, despite the fact that they are huge, muscle-bound monsters. Afterwards, Tricia calls her mother as well. Tricia may have earned respect for Summer due to this incident. As of "Wet Kuat Amortican Summer", Summer now considers Tricia to be her best friend. In "Rattlestar Ricklactica", Tricia is seen dancing to Snake Jazz with Summer, showing that they might've both changed their ways, settled their feud, and are good friends now. In "Promortyus", she and Tricia are hanging out. When Tricia mentions a sexual interest in Jerry Smith, by bluntly telling Summer that she wanted to sleep with her father, Summer is obviously disgusted. In the Pilot episode, Summer was in love with Frank Palicky. When she saw Frank standing there frozen in the hallway, and oblivious to how he was frozen, she was shocked, thinking that he was looking at her. She walked up to him, wanting to plan her first interaction with them just right, because she was dreaming of one day, going as far as to marry him and that the story of their first time meeting would be the story that they'd be telling to their children. She talked to him, lovingly saying "Hey, Frank.", just as his frozen body tipped over and smashed into a bunch of pieces on the ground, sending her into an extreme state of shock and fear. She was later seen, crying over his obituary, asking "What kind of a god would do this?" and then later, coming home and still crying about his death. Two episodes later, in the episode Anatomy Park, she was shown to have been dating another boy for weeks, showing that she has recovered and moved on. In the episode Anatomy Park, Summer was shown to have been dating Ethan for a long time, and not telling her parents about it. Ethan came to her house and was angry at her for always ignoring him and Summer was angry at him for only caring about himself. Jacob had to sort the argument out between the two of them and they became a happy couple again with Summer claiming they loved him. He was later seen in the episode Get Schwifty, where they both learned the ways of Headism and watched the disposal of the sinners together. He helped Summer save Beth and Jerry when it was discovered Headism was a farce. Their relationship is most likely over, because in Big Trouble In Little Sanchez, Summer had another love interest. In "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy", it's revealed that Ethan broke up with Summer in favor of a girl with bigger boobs, causing her to believe she was unattractive, a view reinforced when Beth doesn't tell her she's hot when asked. In an attempt to get Ethan back, she uses one of Rick's alien devices to make her breasts larger, but she ends up accidentally turning herself into a deformed giantess with disproportioned body parts. Upset by Morty and Beth's inability to change her back, Summer follows Ethan to the campsite where he and his new girlfriend are having a date, terrifying them both and ruining their evening. Ultimately, Morty figures out how to restore his sister to normal and then helps her take revenge by mutating Ethan with the same alien technology that mutated Summer. In "Big Trouble In Little Sanchez", Summer had a huge crush on Toby, but thought that he was too far out of their league to talk to him. When Rick Sanchez went to their school in the body of Tiny Rick, he made Summer a lot more popular. Toby went out of his way to invite Summer to a party, in hopes that Tiny Rick will show up. All seemed good between the two, until Summer exposed the fact that Rick killed one of the coaches, and got Rick expelled. Rick, in a fit of rage, shamed them in front of the entire school, exposing the fact that Summer snitched on him. Most of their school hated them due to this, including Toby, meaning that their relationship is most likely over. In "Rickmancing the Stone", Summer, Rick, and Morty travel to the Post-Apocalyptic Dimension. There, Summer meets Hemorrhage, the leader of a Mad Max-esque wasteland gang. Looking for a way to cope with their parent's divorce, Summer has sex and marries Hemorrhage, with the couple never having children, only to dump him after Rick helps restore civilization, and Hemorrhage becomes a couch potato. Summer returns to Dimension C-131 and leaves Hemorrhage behind, though they technically remain married. In the episode Amortycan Grickfitti, Summer seemed to show extreme interest when Morty asks his mom if he can invite a friend over, soon revealing to be Bruce Chutback. Summer instantly forcefully persuades Morty that he needs her help before Bruce sees the 2 as losers. After taking a joyride in the Space cruiser, it is revealed at the end of the episode that Bruce doesn't keep friendships for long and so he leaves Summer and Morty. Lucius Needful, also known as The Devil, was Summer's boss at Needful Things, in "Something Ricked This Way Comes". Summer becomes envious of Morty and his adventures with Rick, so she replaces him with Mr. Needful to spite him. Summer and Mr. Needful become close friends after Summer saves him from his attempted suicide, but she is "Zuckerberged" by him after the unveiling of the globally complied web 4.0 phenomenon n33dful.com. At the end of the episode, Summer teams up with Rick to beat him to a pulp. Episode appearances: Note: This is a list of all the appearances of the current Summer Smith from Dimension C-131. The prominence of the original from Prime Dimension is included on the page of Summer Smith Prime. "The Non-Canonical Adventures" "The Poop in My Pants" (mentioned) Trivia: Summer usually addresses Rick as "Grandpa Rick" or "Grandpa", unlike Morty, who addresses him simply as "Rick". She often uses the phrase "boo-yah" with slight alterations depending on the situation. (e.g. she said "boob-yah" after increasing her breast size in "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy" and "Boo-nah" when she thought she had sent her grandfather to die in "The Rickshank Rickdemption".) Summer used to have a job, making her one of the three members of her family who has been in an actual line of work, with the other two being her mother Beth and her father Jerry.Of those three, Summer is the second one to have been fired, with the first being Jerry. Of those three, Summer is the second one to have been fired, with the first being Jerry. Up until "Solaricks", Summer was the only member of the Smith family who was aware about the deaths of her grandfather Rick and her brother Morty and their subsequent replacement by Rick (C-137) and Morty Prime. ("Rick Potion #9" and "Rixty Minutes"). Also, she was unaware of the fact that the Jerry she's been living with since Mortynight Run is not her real father, instead he was replaced by an alternate version of him. In the episode "Rixty Minutes", it was revealed that Summer was an accident, conceived while her parents, Jerry and Beth, were still in high school. Summer appears to have a habit of "peeing her pants" in stressful situations, although she claims she does it on purpose. She has shamelessly admitted to wetting herself in "A Rickle in Time", "Total Rickall", and "Look Who's Purging Now". Summer is likely Beth's favorite child, according to a memory in the episode "Morty's Mind Blowers". She is the only prominent female character to not have long eyelashes or prominent lips/lipstick. This may be due to her face deliberately being drawn to resemble Jerry's, much more than the family resemblance of her other relatives. Summer has worn different outfits and costumes throughout the entirety of various episodes.In "Lawnmower Dog", she wears a white wife-beater while in bed. (Notably, Summer's pajamas are her regular clothes with switched colors)In "Anatomy Park", she wears a purple sweater for the beginning of the episode, then a pink hoodie for the end.In "Raising Gazorpazorp", she wore a yellow sundress for the entire episode, except for the post-credit scene.In "Total Rickall", she wore a pink v-neck dress, to picture day in her flashback.In "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez", she wore a blue top for part of the episode.In "The Wedding Squanchers", she wears a two-toned purple dress to the wedding through the end of the episode.In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", she had a lock of hair, brushed over to the left side of her face. When she and Morty go to the Prime Dimension, that dimension's version of Summer is wearing white shorts, a belt with a skull buckle, blue top, and wrist bands.In "Rickmancing the Stone", she wears a silver outfit with gloves, hose, and shoulder pads toward the end of the episode.In "Pickle Rick", she wore a light pink dress and purple cardigan and black slip on shoes.During her sleepover in "Rattlestar Ricklactica", Summer wore red and white striped sweatpants with her pink tank top.At one point, Summer wore a pink and white bikini. In "Lawnmower Dog", she wears a white wife-beater while in bed. (Notably, Summer's pajamas are her regular clothes with switched colors) In "Anatomy Park", she wears a purple sweater for the beginning of the episode, then a pink hoodie for the end. In "Raising Gazorpazorp", she wore a yellow sundress for the entire episode, except for the post-credit scene. In "Total Rickall", she wore a pink v-neck dress, to picture day in her flashback. In "Big Trouble in Little Sanchez", she wore a blue top for part of the episode. In "The Wedding Squanchers", she wears a two-toned purple dress to the wedding through the end of the episode. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", she had a lock of hair, brushed over to the left side of her face. When she and Morty go to the Prime Dimension, that dimension's version of Summer is wearing white shorts, a belt with a skull buckle, blue top, and wrist bands. In "Rickmancing the Stone", she wears a silver outfit with gloves, hose, and shoulder pads toward the end of the episode. In "Pickle Rick", she wore a light pink dress and purple cardigan and black slip on shoes. During her sleepover in "Rattlestar Ricklactica", Summer wore red and white striped sweatpants with her pink tank top. At one point, Summer wore a pink and white bikini. Summer has appeared in every episode except for "M. Night Shaym-Aliens!", "Mortynight Run", "The Ricklantis Mixup", "Forgetting Sarick Mortshall" and "Rise of the Numbericons: The Movie".Her prime version appeared in "Pilot", "Lawnmower Dog", "Anatomy Park", and "Meeseeks and Destroy". Additionally, a clone of her appeared in "Mort: Ragnarick", though her actual self never appeared at any point during said episode. Her prime version appeared in "Pilot", "Lawnmower Dog", "Anatomy Park", and "Meeseeks and Destroy". Additionally, a clone of her appeared in "Mort: Ragnarick", though her actual self never appeared at any point during said episode. Summer's implanted memory in Total Rickall is a magical rainbow lamb named "Tinkles", who acts as her imaginary friend. It's unknown as to whether she actually had an imaginary friend since this was just an implanted memory. She appears to be self-conscious of her figure, as shown in the game, Summer has a bra way too big for her as pointed out by Morty, and when she got upset by her mother's remarks about her body in "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy".However, in the dream of Goldenfold's dream version of Mrs. Pancakes, her boobs (and butt) are much bigger than they would appear under her clothing. On the other hand, this was not the real Summer, and Goldenfold could have re-imagined her body proportions to be much bigger to be more enticing. However, in the dream of Goldenfold's dream version of Mrs. Pancakes, her boobs (and butt) are much bigger than they would appear under her clothing. On the other hand, this was not the real Summer, and Goldenfold could have re-imagined her body proportions to be much bigger to be more enticing. In "The Rickshank Rickdemption", Summer's legal age under Galactic Federation became 47 years old. When comparing this to her brother Morty's new age of 35 years old, it can be concluded that Summer may be 18 years old at the beginning of season 3, although this must still be confirmed. In "Rickmancing the Stone", Summer mentions that she enjoys post-apocalyptic versions of Earth. Summer hates the movie "The Purge". Summer seems to be quite athletic, evidenced by the volleyball in her room as well as the occasional appearance of a few trophies in the background of her room. It is likely that Summer likes anime and other Japanese culture.  Merchandise: References: ↑ 1.0 1.1 Rixty Minutes ↑ Wet Kuat Amortican Summer Summer Smith soundboard