Supernova is a super-heroine who appeared in "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" as a member of The Vindicators. With the exception of Noob Noob, she is the only Vindicator still alive and nominally a part of the team. Appearance: Supernova is a purple cosmic being with long flowing hair and a costume that resembles a galaxy with floating miniature planets surrounding her. Her eyes are really part of her powers, as they are shown leaving her face and floating above her when she powers up for combat for World-Enders killer. Personality: Supernova is shown to be a loyal, dedicated, and heroic woman who stops evil wherever it lies. She is Alan Rails' ex-wife, the couple divorced after personal issues and due to her infidelity. Another possibility is shown in the spinoff The Vindicators 2, when it revealed she pressured him to keep secrets about the true nature of teammates death, Dorian 5 and taking credit for defeating Doom-Nomitron. However, once they go through Rick's "Saw" game, she eventually becomes bitter and enraged at both Rick and Morty, even though Morty contributed to none of the problems Rick created. It's also revealed that Supernova had an ongoing romance with Million Ants that goes much deeper than sexual intercourse, however she believes Million Ants is better than Alan in bed.  Her rage eventually evolves to the point that she attempts to kill both Rick and Morty, despite Morty doing nothing wrong. Even when Million Ants attempts to reason with her by saying it wasn't right to kill them, she in turn kills Million Ants simply because she didn't want him alive to see her kill Rick and Morty and so there would be no witnesses. It is at this point that she abandons all her heroic aspects in exchange for her anger and desire for revenge. More of her personality is revealed in the spinoff the Vindicators 2. She appears typical good hero and her marriage seemed alright at the time. But its hinted she had already had the affair behind Alan, as she went to lengths to hide the baby's nature and convince Alan that it was his child. She starts off good, but slowly derails and shows she's hyper focus on keeping the glory of being heroes and hiding her past mistakes. The spinoff hints she may have issues with her rage before Rick forced "Saw" game on her team.  Whether due to the loss of her child or too much to drink, Supernova killed an entire bar group and their teammates Calypso, Diablo Verde, and Lady Katana. Though she doesn't show any guilt or remorse for the incident, nor does she show guilt over Dorian 5. She even attempted to blame Alan Rails in Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender. She also pushed Crocubot to do a media campaign for them to take credit for defeating Doom-Nomitron; as well as say it was Doom-Nomitronresponsible for the deaths. When her husband attempts to warn her about Rick finding out, Supernova shrugs it off and focuses on using it to push their image, very determined to keep their fame as heroes or quote "not to wallow in guilt and shame". When her tired husband vents to her on his feelings towards the deaths and losing "their" child, she is at first comforting, but still doesn't tell him the truth. It is hinted when she'd take him to a healer to make him forget, she smiles when he relents a bit. Though it's unknown if it is a smile that she comforted him, or that she's happy she's getting what she wants. Biography:: Not much is known about Supernova's past but we do know that she was married to Alan Rails and she transformed a normal ant colony into Million Ants using her powers. Supernova has also teamed up with Rick and Morty before, but this is unseen. At some point, she had an affair with Million Ants and attempted to hide the pregnancy from Alan. At first, she told him the baby was his and tried several times to hide its paternity truth. When Doom-Nomitron came they "fought it". But in reality, it was one of Rick Sanchez's inventions. Supernova herself did not want to call Rick to help. The team voted to let Rick handle it, despite Supernova's protest. Its during their "side trips", She and Vance wiped out the population of Dorian 5 after after receiving a distress signal, but not knowing which side sent it. As the last survivor dies, she forced Vance of the planet before miscarrying hers and Million Ants' child, resulting in the destruction of the planet.  Its after her miscarriage, she goes to club with Calypso, Diablo Verde, and Lady Katana. While there, she blacks out, murdering everyone at the club, including her teammates in a drunken rampage.  When Rick's set it and Forget it trap saves the planet from Doom-Nomitron, she jumps at the opportunity to take credit for it. Fully believing Rick wouldn't know it was his invention that stopped Doom-Nomitron or get angry about it. Despite her husband's objections, she's determined to use the situation to her advantage. She pins the deaths of her teammates and Dorian 5 on Doom-Nomitron, having Crocubot do the press release. When Worldender comes back, she and the rest of the Vindicators go to fight it. Due to Rick's preemptive defeat of Worldender during a drunken rampage, she and the rest of the Vindicators get stuck in a horrible parody of the Saw film series. Eventually, during the challenge where they have to score 5 3-pointers in basketball in 5 minutes, Million Ants and Alan Rails get into a fight, which ends with Million Ants killing Alan Rails. At the end of all the challenges, Supernova finally snaps and blames Rick for all the deaths that have occurred, and ends up murdering Million Ants by ending the life of the queen ant inside him. But before she can kill Rick and Morty it turns out that Drunk Rick planned a party at the end of all the challenges. Not wanting to get arrested she sneaks away, in part because Rick is indifferent to her doing so. Supernova returns in the Limited series; Crisis on C-137 where she has been recruited by a rogue Mr. Meeseeks along with other villains who want Rick Sanchez dead. However just before she's about to kill him, Rick manages to activate a device that manages to send all the villains to different universes with no way out. Sometime later while the Smith family watches Interdimensional Cable, they find Supernova on a Bachelorette like show as the main lead much to Rick's embarrassment. Powers and Abilities: Flight and Levitation Matter Creation and Destruction: Was able to destroy Noob-Noob's guns with ease and then replaced said guns with a mop out of nowhere. Sentient Life: She gave life to Million Ants and was also able to take it away in the blink of an eye. Energy Blasts: Able to create a concussive blast. Telekinesis Star Mother's Wrath: Using her planets, creates a portal behind her. Said portal then sends out energy blasts that home in on enemies. Appearances: "Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender" "Rick Can Handle It" "Pro-Nouns" (non-speaking cameo) "Out of Gas" "Mercy Kill" "Girls Night" "Little Trains" "Heroes" "Rick and Morty Issue 44" "Rick and Morty Presents: The Vindicators" Rick and Morty: Crisis on C-137 Trivia: She is a parody of Starfire and Star Sapphire from DC as well as Singularity, Eternity and Nova from Marvel Comics.She might also be a parody of Wonder Woman because of her quote: "Star Mother, grant me your wrath", while she summoned a portal of shooting stars to destroy multiple security drones. It is similar to Wonder Woman's iconic quote: "Hera, give me strength."In addition, her powers of force fields and telekinesis share similarities with Susan Storm of the Fantastic Four and Jean Grey of the X-Men. She might also be a parody of Wonder Woman because of her quote: "Star Mother, grant me your wrath", while she summoned a portal of shooting stars to destroy multiple security drones. It is similar to Wonder Woman's iconic quote: "Hera, give me strength." In addition, her powers of force fields and telekinesis share similarities with Susan Storm of the Fantastic Four and Jean Grey of the X-Men. Even though Vance Maximus is the official leader of the Vindicators, Supernova seems to be the true leader as she commands the team most of the time.  Maximus' true position may be as the team's figurehead. Despite seemingly being omniscient, she appears to know very little of Earth, shown by her mispronunciation of "Israel," further solidifying her place as a Starfire parody. Despite trying to kill him and Morty, Rick does not try to go after Supernova when Morty notes that she is getting away during the party drunk Rick had set up. Rick even points out to Morty that a lot of people try to kill him on a daily basis and he usually ends up hanging out and getting high with about half of them, which he shows by pointing out that Gearhead who previously had betrayed Rick to the authorities in Mortynight Run had been invited to the party and did not try to take revenge on Rick, indicating that something similar might occur with Supernova. Her nickname is "Tittybean", which is a reference to Robin's nickname for Starfire, "Boobumps".