The Garage serves as the primary workshop, and occasional living quarters of Rick Sanchez. There is a large, well-hidden laboratory underneath. It has an AI, similar to the Space Cruiser. Secret Areas: In Total Rickall, it is revealed that if you turn the knob of the washing machine, it opens up to a secret compartment filled with guns. In The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy, while Summer is looks for the Morphizer-Xe, she put the pins on the bulletin board in a position revealing a small compartment filled with sci-fi stuff. The stuff has unknown purposes. In Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri, it is revealed that using a remote, a storage wall with machinery can be switched out with Rick’s shelf. Phoenixperson was stored on this wall, and was unfortunately left with several limitations, including being dismantled, having some pipes and wires connected(presumably to keep him alive), and only being awaken by the press of a button, essentially leaving him half-dead, but he was finally restored to normal in Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort. In the latter episode, it’s shown the wall can also be switched out using voice commands from Rick.  Sublevels: There is a secret transparent hatch in the corner opposite to the door that leads to the sub-levels of the laboratory. In Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation it is revealed that the garage has at least 22 sublevels as well as a secret BX sublevel basement: Sublevel B1: Ricks in other realities use this sublevel for the Phoenix Program clone pods; since Rick C-137 has discontinued this protocol this space is used for the containment of aliens including Blim Blam who are being kept suspended in pods. The Night Family also built a long-range version of the Somnambulator here to allow themselves to retain their Night personas within an 280 km radius. Sublevel B2: A laboratory where sentient plants are kept. Sublevel B3: A prison with at least 20 transparent sacs filled with globaflyn; Rick keeps people he wants gone but not killed here, trapped to forever live in dreams of what they want the most. Tony was kept in a sac in the prison until he rejected his simulation and was freed by Rick. The sublevel elevator starts here and descends all the way to level BX. Sublevel B10: Rick's base of operations against Rick Prime. Rick keeps maps and holographic analysis units here to aid in his efforts to capture his nemesis. Sublevel B15: A cool sushi spot staffed by an elderly Asian chef who cooks excellent food. Appearance: The door near the shelves leads to the Kitchen. Episode Appearances: Pilot Anatomy Park Meeseeks and Destroy Rick Potion #9 Raising Gazorpazorp Something Ricked This Way Comes Ricksy Business A Rickle in Time Auto Erotic Assimilation Total Rickall Big Trouble In Little Sanchez Look Who's Purging Now The Rickshank Rickdemption Rickmancing the Stone Pickle Rick Vindicators 3: The Return of Worldender The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy Rest and Ricklaxation The Ricklantis Mixup Morty's Mind Blowers The ABC's of Beth Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty Rattlestar Ricklactica The Vat of Acid Episode Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri Mort Dinner Rick Andre Mortyplicity Rickdependence Spray Amortycan Grickfitti Rick & Morty's Thanksploitation Spectacular Gotron Jerrysis Rickvangelion Rickternal Friendshine of the Spotless Mort Forgetting Sarick Mortshall Rickmurai Jack (Flashback) Solaricks Bethic Twinstinct Night Family Juricksic Mort Full Meta Jackrick Analyze Piss A Rick in King Mortur's Mort Ricktional Mortpoon's Rickmas Mortcation How Poopy Got His Poop Back The Jerrick Trap Air Force Wong That's Amorte Unmortricken Rickfending Your Mort Wet Kuat Amortican Summer Mort: Ragnarick Fear No Mort (Fear Hole) 