 The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick first is a version of Rick Sanchez from a Prince-Inspired Dimension (Dimension C-290) who appeared in Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind. He was against the Council of Ricks as noted by Rick (C-137). He was killed by Evil Rick. Biography:: The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick was at one point visited by Evil Rick and Evil Morty in his own dimension. Evil Rick pursued other Ricks in order to kill them and steal their Mortys. He shot Former Scientist Rick through his cheek in an angle to exit through his temple before they ran off with his grandson Morty. However, "Unmortricken" later shows that Evil Rick stabbed him in the abdomen and took him away so Evil Morty could scan his memories, presumably looking for information on the Central Finite Curve. Appearance: This Rick had large curly light-blue hair, with a unibrow, a moustache and a soul patch of matching color. He wore a white frilly shirt underneath a purple jacket with a tall neck. He also wore matching pants, belt and shoes, with three gold rings on one hand and one on the other. Personality: It is evident that The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick had a history of disagreement with the Council of Ricks when this was brought up by Rick (C-137) at his own trial. It can be assumed that he and Rick shared some form of friendship or mutual respect as a result of their feud with the council. It would also appear that he was famous among other Ricks when all Ricks present at Rick (C-137)'s trial gasped when learning of Former Scientist Rick's death. Apperances: "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" "Unmortricken" (flashback cameo) Trivia: This Rick was a parody of Prince, as evidenced by his clothing, hair style, and moniker. The name derives off of a nickname people called Prince when his artist name was a symbol. Despite being dead in the series, The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick appears in the game, Pocket Mortys. Here, he is referred to as The Scientist Known as Rick, hinting the game takes place before Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind or that the game is its own timeline where he is still alive. In a hidden easter egg found by players in Pocket Mortys, it was discovered that The Scientist Formerly Known as Rick originated from the universe C-290. 