Tricia Lange is a classmate of Summer and is a recurring character in Rick and Morty. She is friends with Jessica and Holly Hooks. Tricia is known for her robust figure and fixation on certain, bizarre fetishes (See below). She also went on a date with Ethan when he was Summer’s boyfriend. She first appeared in the Season 3 episode, "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy". Biography:: The original Tricia Lange presumably became a Cronenberg in the Cronenberged Dimension. Ethan cancelled a camping trip with his girlfriend Summer Smith to spend the same trip with Tricia instead. A dick move that both Summer and her brother, Morty Smith, chose to attribute to Tricia’s huge breasts. This causes Summer to become insecure about her own breast size and take extreme scientific measures to compete with her. When the Smith family interrupted their camping trip, Tricia was emotionally touched by seeing a giant Beth comfort her daughter, despite their larger size and strange inside-out appearance. She quickly left Ethan to call her own mother. She is also friends with Jessica and discussed her breakup with Brad, expressing Tricia’s desire to experience a warm "penis-in-foreskin" love, which hints that she may not have a circum fetish. She later exhibits similar interest in urination. In spite of her initial rivalry, Trisha is still shown to be friends with Summer. She is also friends with Nancy, though doesn’t hesitate to criticize her with Summer, yet has offered to give her a makeover. In Rattlestar Ricklactica, Tricia was in Summer's room criticizing Nancy's clothing choice and weight after dancing with Summer to the rhythm of the snake jazz. After the credit roles of Promortyus, Tricia talks in private inside Summer's room about her dad Jerry Smith, while observing his beekeeping movements from above as Summer is on her phone. Tricia starts out putting him down before gradually mentioning a growing sexual interest in him and his beekeeping hobby. Eventually she blurts out and tells Summer she wants to sleep with her father, to the latter’s obvious disgust as the episode ends. Appearance: Tricia has long brown hair, a narrow nose, and a notably huge chest, which she is most known for. She wears a low-cut white crop top, a burgundy skirt, white nylons and a cross necklace. She also wears a pair of gray knee socks and black flats. Personality: Tricia only appears briefly in "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy," but seems to be a sensitive girl, crying tears at seeing Beth comfort her daughter Summer and left Ethan to go call her own mother. She also seems to be spiritual, as her character bears a cross necklace. Ironically, or possibly even alluding to this, she is portrayed as a sexual deviant, appearing to either be into urophilia, (sexual arousal from being urinated on), by mentioning she enjoys it at the end of "Rest and Ricklaxation" or she is trying to be edgy to appear cool. She also didn’t hesitate to tell Summer that she wanted to sleep with her father after taking note of him in beekeeping. Tricia seems to be willing to be friends with nearly anyone as long as they have popularity or good looks. She often gives shocking one liners in between episodes and isn’t seen again for the rest of the episode. Appearances: "The Whirly Dirly Conspiracy" "Rest and Ricklaxation" "Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat" "Rattlestar Ricklactica" "Promortyus" "Amortycan Grickfitti" (cameo) "Full Meta Jackrick" (cameo) “Wet Kuat Amortican Summer” "Fear No Mort" (Fear Hole) (cameo) Trivia: In "Rest and Ricklaxation", she mentions having a love for docking, which involves two intact penises in order to work, hinting that she may have a interest in gay porn. Tricia is named in reference to Tricia Lange - a model and actress who was selected 'Playmate of the Month' in Playboy for the month of June 1984 - who was also known for having large breasts. Tricia is the second character to be voiced by Canadian actress Cassie Steele with the first being Tammy Guetermann.  Site Navigation: