 Unity is a  hivemind and Rick Sanchez's former lover. They take the forms of multiple races, genders, and species, and use both male and female avatars around Rick. Unity first appeared in "Auto Erotic Assimilation," where they briefly get back together with Rick, only for them to separate again at the end of the episode. Biography:: ​After Rick, Morty and Summer follow a distress signal coming from a seemingly 'abandoned' ship, a group of Nippalians ask for Rick's help to defeat the evil entity that's taking over their minds. Using the assimilated members of the crew, Unity takes control of the group's minds, and they recognize Rick. Rick introduces them to his grandchildren, and explains that he and Unity used to date. The four of them return to Unity's Planet. Unity speaks with Rick through its alien citizens, occasionally switching between avatars mid-conversation. They tell Rick their plans to manage an organization efficient enough to merge with the Galactic Federation, where they will have access to countless other worlds for them to assimilate until they become "what the single-minded once called a god". Rick is impressed by this, and the two quickly resume their relationship as lovers. While Rick and Unity rekindle their relationship, Unity also takes care of Summer and Morty. Unity has so much fun reconnecting with Rick and performing crazy stunts to impress him (especially making and ingesting fractal dust, a powerful drug) that they gradually lose control of their citizens. After regaining their free will, the citizens of the planet start a race war, chasing after Morty and Summer until a Unity-led SWAT team rescues them. Summer and Morty, traumatized, insist that Rick takes them all home. When Rick opens a portal for them and insists on staying behind, Summer explains that Rick has an unhealthy impact on Unity, and expresses her disapproval toward their relationship. Rick stays with Unity for a while longer, but after leaving to use the bathroom, emerges to find that Unity has deserted the city (and possibly the planet) and written breakup letters across every surface. They confess their love for Rick, but ultimately concedes that they cannot be together. Rick returns home and attempts suicide, but narrowly fails. As shown from “Air Force Wong”, Unity still cares a lot for Rick despite how they ended their relationship and tried to check up on him multiple times via call and later went to Earth when they heard that he had begun to hunt for “him” once again. When Rick continually ignores them, they resort to the extreme by taking over the entire state of Virginia. Abilities: Unity assimilates others into the hivemind by using one of its hosts to vomit into another individual's mouth. Unity's hosts have been seen acting animalistic while spreading (screeching and pointing at unassimilated individuals), although Unity can imitate natural 'humanoid' behavior as well while in a passive, controlled state. It has individual control of everybody it assimilates. All of Unity's avatars seem to possess the same brain while controlled by it, and Unity is able to move and speak transitionally through multiple planet-scale civilizations of people. However, Rick's blue serum seems to remove its control, leaving Unity able to direct less and less bodies at once and making them dizzy. As well as being able to take over the minds of others, they are also seen to be able to release those minds. Though this comes with drawbacks when releasing large numbers of assimilated minds which seem to be strong headaches as seen in "Air Force Wong," when they released the people of the United States of America from the control of The President. Before they do so, they say, "I've never released hundreds of millions of people before, this is gonna suck," and they then respond to the whiplash of pain they feel afterwards of saying this. Appearances: "Auto Erotic Assimilation" "Air Force Wong" Trivia: Though it uses a number of forms around Rick, including multiple genders, Unity mainly uses the purple-haired president of the planet (voiced by actress Christina Hendricks and partially modeled after her). This form also may have been the leader of the planet before Unity took over because it was surrounded by bodyguards while speaking to Rick in the beginning of Auto Erotic Assimilation. The form mentioned above also appeared in the Rickstaverse game, on a screen inside an abandoned spaceship, with a delete history tab next to it. It was revealed in the commentary for the episode, "Auto Erotic Assimilation", that Unity's primary form has flat concentric nipple rings. Unity was originally going to appear in Season 1, during an alien comic-con, but the idea was scrapped and reused for the Season 2 episode "Auto Erotic Assimilation". A lot of the people Unity assimilated on the alien planet highly resemble background characters from Earth. Unity is referred to as 'it' and 'them', omitting the use of gender-specific pronouns. In the commentary of "Auto Erotic Assimilation", Dan Harmon and Justin Roiland describe Unity as a genderless character. In languages other than English, however, Unity is usually referred to as "she", given that its "main" body is female and Rick generally treats it as such."I want to talk to Unity, Beta Seven. I know it's in there." -- Rick"Actually, no. I think Unity's great and you're a horrible influence on it." -- Summer"Don't talk to them like that" --Rick (referring to Unity) "I want to talk to Unity, Beta Seven. I know it's in there." -- Rick "Actually, no. I think Unity's great and you're a horrible influence on it." -- Summer "Don't talk to them like that" --Rick (referring to Unity) The name Unity is a reference to another TV show created by Dan Harmon, community with the characters from that show having avatars based of them in a show created for Rick by Unity Unity is the name of a similar Alien parasite in Superman: The Animated Series that also aims to mind control entire worlds by entering through their mouths. Unity stated that it was the population of a small town when it met Rick. During their first relationship, Unity and Rick were noted to be very close. This is seen in “Air Force Wong”, where Unity was aware of Rick’s obsession with finding Rick Prime, having noted that the first time he started his search, he nearly died. This indicates that Unity is fully aware of Rick’s true origin and past. However, she might've been confusing him for the version of Rick from the dimension he's currently in, implying that Rick had also tried to hunt down Rick Prime. Unity's origins and true form are completely unknown. Unity's original plans were for the planet it assimilated to join the Galactic Federation and assimilate the entire Federation, but its current plans are unknown due to the destruction of the Federation in "The Rickshank Rickdemption". It calls any non-hive minds "single-minded". Rick's relationship with Unity revealed Rick's pansexuality  Merchandise: References: