Western Rick, also known as Cowboy Rick, is an alternate version of Rick who, along with his Morty, hails from a cowboy dimension. Appearance: Western Rick, as he is a variation of Rick, looks very similar to Rick, aside from a few differences. Unlike Rick, Western Rick wears a green bolo tie, a large belt buckle on his belt, boots with spurs, and a white cowboy hat. Biography:: Western Rick was on a visit to The Citadel with his Morty at the same time as Rick and Morty of Dimension C-137 was brought in to be judged by the Council of Ricks. They later came to the trial and kept in the far back. He portaled his Morty, without warning, into a battle arena where his Morty fought against a giant spider and had his arm ripped off. He later walked in on Morty masturbating and left in disgust without forcing him on another adventure.  He survived the events of the fall of the Galactic Federation and temporary destruction of The Citadel by either fighting, hiding or not being present at The Citadel at the time.  During the presidential debate, Western Rick was backstage with Salesman Rick and was arguing with Black Rick about something. most likely related to the upcoming election. Pocket Mortys: Cowboy Rick appears as a gym leader in the game Pocket Mortys.  "Howdy 'buurp'! I'm the sheriff around these parts.*I beat outlaws like you all the time. You won't be taking my badge from me that easily, partner!"—Cowboy Rick "Out West, a man must put up if he's to see what kind of a’ Morty he’s been a' raising.* Are you such a man, Rick? Or are you just a no-good, dimension-hopping toad?"—Cowboy Rick "You're no partner of mine. Get out of here!"—Cowboy Rick Appearances: "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind" (cameo) "The Ricklantis Mixup" (cameo) Rickstaverse - Mortytract 4: "Unidle Hands" Pocket Mortys Trivia: It is unknown what dimension Western Rick and Morty are from, but it is most likely set in a setting where everyone is a cowboy/cowgirl. It is possible that they might be a reference to Back to the Future Part III  which features Rick and Morty's inspiration, Doc and Marty, in the old west.  