Western Morty, also known as Cowboy Morty, is a cowboy version of Morty who travels with his Rick on adventures and to The Citadel. Appearance: Western Morty, as he is a cowboy variation of Morty, looks very similar to Morty, aside from a few differences. He wears a red bandanna around his neck, a cowboy vest, a belt with an oversized buckle and a brown cowboy hat. He kind of bears resemblance to Woody from Toy Story. Biography:: This Morty was born and raised in a cowboy dimension with his family and Rick. He often joined his Rick on visits to The Citadel, one of which coincided with the trial of Rick C-137. Morty took notice of his cowboy counterpart passing by, but his Rick dismissed it, saying Morty was easily impressed. He appeared in a leaflet for Mortyism where he was sitting in the waiting room at a Morty hospital (St. Mortimers Hospital) and talking to other Mortys. While doing homework, his Rick had portaled him into a battle arena to fight a monster and had his left arm ripped off. He was then taught by Nurse Morty that Rick will leave him alone if he's busy masturbating. He quickly acted on this advice once his arm was reattached, only to return to the hospital later, but this time because of skin burns on his penis. He also appeared in another leaflet where he had built a soapbox race car for the annual Morty Carlo Rally. Though it's not known shown how he placed in the race. Pocket Mortys:  Cowboy Morty appears in the game Pocket Mortys. He appears in Pocket Like You Stole It 1. Appearances: "Close Rick-Counters of the Rick Kind" (cameo) Pocket Mortys Rickstaverse"Unidle Hands""Morty Take the Wheel" "Unidle Hands" "Morty Take the Wheel" Trivia: It is unknown what dimension Western Rick and Morty are from, but it is most likely set in a setting where everyone is a cowboy/cowgirl. His attire resembles Woody from Toy Story. It is possible that they might be a reference to Back to the Future Part III  which features Rick and Morty's inspiration, Doc and Marty, in the old west.  References ↑ Unidle Hands - Rickstaverse 