 Zeep Xanflorp is a scientist within Rick's Microverse Battery who creates his own micro-planet power supply called the Miniverse. His development of a new power supply prevents Rick from using his flying car. Zeep is depicted as arrogant and very intelligent, and in many ways a parallel of Rick Sanchez. Personality: Zeep has been shown to be arrogant, self-loathing, and very prideful which is only outshined by his genius. He shares many personality traits with Rick Sanchez and has many traits of the stereotypical genius. Once he figures out the meaning of his universe, he is shown to go from disliking to resenting Rick. Like Rick, Zeep has a vice; opium. While Zeep puts himself above the Miniverse and Teenyverse, he at least cared enough to use his genius to benefit his own society, unlike Rick. Furthermore, like Rick, Zeep shares his sense of humor. When he arrives at his Miniverse, the inhabitants greet him with the V-Sign, a British version of the middle finger, which Zeep told them meant "peace among worlds." Once learning Rick created his universe the same way, he probably realized Rick made the same joke and becomes the first to use the middle finger gesture in the right context.  Appearance: Zeep appears to be an alien-like creature of an unknown species. He has a green head, with a large forehead that tapers down throughout his face. He has tribal-esque blue stripes across his forehead. Whether these are a part of his skin, or drawn on for cosmetic, religious (presumably not, as Zeep is a paralell of Rick, who is a well-known atheist), or other reasons is unknown. Zeep has yellow irises, blue pupils, and dark circles underneath his eyes, perhaps from all the late-nights he spent crafting his Miniverse. Zeep's fingertips and lips are blue. Like Rick, Zeep has a single eyebrow. For his clothing, Zeep wears a green labcoat with gold detailing on the collar and wrists, with a grey shirt underneath, on his native Microverse. When he visits his Miniverse, he wears an alien fursuit as a disguise. Relationships: Zeep cooperates with the Microverse's President to develop a new power source for their society. Chris is amiable to Zeep, although Zeep is somewhat disrespectful of him, addressing him by first name and sarcastically calling him a "great president". Rick took an immediate disliking to Zeep, due to their alarmingly similar ideas and personalities. While likewise indifferent and somewhat disliking of Rick, due to him only knowing Rick as an alien visitor who granted his planet with an "outdated" power system, Zeep's feelings towards his 'creator' eventually evolve into an outright hatred and resentment, especially once he realizes his universe was only created to power Rick's car. After a duel where Rick bests him, he seems to come to an understanding of how Rick works. At the end of the episode, even though Zeep may not have a better opinion of Rick, he begrudgingly accepts that his fate is in Rick's hands. When Kyle explains his plan to enslave people in a Teenyverse to make the Flooblecrank in Zeep's Miniverse obsolete, Zeep is appalled at him. He starts to make the same objections that Rick had made to his Miniverse, but then realizes his hypocrisy. Trivia: Zeep's status is only known up to the point when Rick and Morty escaped the Microverse. Time in the Microverse may pass faster than in the real world, but if it is slow enough for Rick to have met Chris in a previous visit before "The Ricks Must Be Crazy", Zeep may still be alive, although potentially much older.